Title: Airport seeking public's help to reunite parrot with owner
Source: BBC News
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c0q97p281lgo
--------------------------------------------------

Can you help reunite a parrot with its owner?
Well, staff at Dublin Airport are seeking the public's help to do just that after the bird was found on the grounds on Easter Sunday.
The bird was discovered by airport police near terminal one after being spotted perched on a rubbish bin.
And this isn't the first time a parrot has been lost in Dublin Airport after one attempted to take off from the main runway in 2019.
It was later reunited with its owner.
But can this be a similar success story?
The airport said the bird, which it has named Troy after the Republic of Ireland footballer Troy Parrott, was confirmed as a female Alexandrine parakeet after a vet check.
"One of the responding officers was able to gently coax the bird using food, and the parrot quickly became comfortable, even perching on the officer's hand and shoulder," the airport said in a statement.
"The bird was safely secured and brought to a nearby patrol vehicle, where it appeared to settle in the warmth of the van as the officers completed their patrol." 
Officers brought the parrot back to the airport police station where it was "provided with fruit, water and some toys and a comfortable temporary enclosure made from and dog crate and brush handle".
"The bird has been well cared for overnight," the statement added.
An Garda Síochána (Irish police), a local pet shop and a nearby animal sanctuary have all been notified.
The airport has been actively sharing details on social media in an effort to locate its owner.
It added that "a number of enquiries have been received, including some referencing leg ring numbers, none have matched the identification on this parrot to date".
Efforts to reunite the parrot with its owner are ongoing.
"We look forward to helping this unexpected visitor get safely home."
A parrot that attempted to take off from the main runway at Dublin Airport was reunited with its owner in 2019.
The African grey female named Hugo was spotted taxiing for flight by a firefighter who was carrying out a routine safety inspection.
There was also a "surprise visitor" when a "a very chatty parrot who clearly wasn't booked on any flight" landed at the airport in August 2025.
Also last year the airport jokingly considered changing its name to Troy Parrott Airport after the Republic of Ireland striker's hat-trick against Hungary.
The airport's social media team has repeated the joke following more recent Ireland matches.
The labradoodle has started his job at the centre which is named after Leeds Rhinos star Rob Burrow.
Skylarks, which lay their eggs directly into the grass, are in decline in England.
How to make sure your pets are cool and comfortable during periods of hot weather. 
Hailsham Town Council said the site is to offer people a place to remember much-loved pets.
South Essex Wildlife Hospital retrieves the female bird, which was trapped on the the 75th floor.
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.