Title: Troy the parrot home safe after Dublin Airport adventure
Source: BBC News
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/ckg9y5q002ro
--------------------------------------------------

A parrot discovered at Dublin Airport has been safely reunited with its owner, thanks to the efforts of airport staff and the public.
The Alexandrine parakeet, temporarily nicknamed "Troy" by airport staff in honour of Republic of Ireland footballer Troy Parrott, was discovered near Terminal One by airport police on Easter Sunday.
The parrot, which is female and nearly two years old, was cared for at the airport police station and provided with fruit, water, toys, and a temporary enclosure constructed by the Airport Police K9 unit.
Her owner, Gheorghe, was eventually identified through her tag number and the bird's response to her name, which was revealed to be Lola.
In a post on social media on Tuesday, the airport confirmed Lola is now "back home with her pal".
She made firm friendships with the airport's social media team who shared some facts about the travel-curious bird, including that she loves watermelon and strawberries, is very vocal when not getting attention, and was happy for "Troy" to be kept as her middle name. 
Staff also joked that she seemed delighted her "shift" was finally over.
A parrot that attempted to take off from the main runway at Dublin Airport was reunited with its owner in 2019.
The African grey female named Hugo was spotted taxiing for flight by a firefighter who was carrying out a routine safety inspection.
There was also a "surprise visitor" when a "a very chatty parrot who clearly wasn't booked on any flight" landed at the airport in August 2025.
Also last year the airport jokingly considered changing its name to Troy Parrott Airport after the Republic of Ireland striker's hat-trick against Hungary.
The airport's social media team has repeated the joke following more recent Ireland matches.
Drivers and commuters have been warned to allow extra time for their journeys due to protests on roads.
Skylarks, which lay their eggs directly into the grass, are in decline in England.
South Essex Wildlife Hospital retrieves the female bird, which was trapped on the the 75th floor.
Drivers and commuters were warned to allow extra time for their journeys due to protests on roads.
The man, who was driving one of the cars, was pronounced dead at the scene, which occurred on the N53.
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.