Title: I pay $550 a year for unlimited airport lounge access. They're sometimes crowded, but it's still an incredible value.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/airport-lounge-chase-credit-card-access-worth-it-2025-1
--------------------------------------------------

As a frequent flyer who isn't loyal to any one airline — I typically just book the cheapest economy ticket — I've focused on making my airport experience as enjoyable as possible.

The best investment I've made to that end is getting Priority Pass airport lounge access through my Chase Sapphire Reserve credit card.

The card costs me $550 a year and gives me unlimited visits to more than 1,700 airport lounges worldwide. American Express and Capital One also offer access to the network through their respective credit cards.

I've used the pass dozens of times a year in more than 20 countries since 2018. I always enjoy free food and drinks — alcohol included — and many have access to showers and private spaces to work or relax away from the busy airport terminal.

Some even have sleep pods and spas, like the airport transit lounge at Singapore's Changi Airport. The one in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, has a pool.

Priority Pass has some downsides

Some lounges have lackluster amenities, others are restricted due to crowds, and a handful of major US airports don't have Priority Pass options at all.

Christopher Evans, the CEO of Collinson International, which owns Priority Pass, told Business Insider that many people don't want to give up the perk, and the company is constantly investing in the customer experience to make it worthwhile.

"We've surveyed people asking if you lost your lounge access benefit, what would happen?" he said. "94% of consumers in the Asia-Pacific region said they were likely to change card provider. That was 62% in [Europe, the Middle East, and Africa]."

While my biggest worry is capacity and lounges cutting some access, I think Priority Pass — even with the crowds — is easily worth the hefty annual fee for frequent travelers.

Waitlists and reserved spots to tackle overcrowding

I've been increasingly concerned about Priority Pass crowds — especially as airlines make it more difficult to access their own lounges.

In 2023, Delta Air Lines changed who could access their SkyClubs and made earning status based on dollars spent instead of miles flown. British Airways recently followed suit with its own sweep of changes.

As a result, Evans said people who can no longer reach the upper echelons of airline loyalty are looking at memberships like Priority Pass as an alternative.

I've noticed the increased crowds in the US and some European airports, which were already on the rise amid the post-COVID travel boom. I've found myself on waitlists that reach up to an hour or fighting for a seat with a power outlet available.

Meanwhile, airline lounges like Lufthansa and Air France at New York-JFK, both of which are in the Priority Pass network, limit access to those using Priority Pass due to capacity.

Evans said Priority Pass has seen a spike in the number of people accessing its network and is working to address the demand by establishing waitlists, adding new lounges, creating a "pre-book" reservation system, and other app improvements.

"We have millions of visits a month in our program, two visits a second now, I think, or we're getting close," he said.

Pre-book guarantees access for a fee and is available at 110 airports, a spokesperson told BI.

"We'll be starting to roll out the ability to highlight to customers which lounges are likely to be busier and at which times a day," he said. "So, pre-warning people by enhancing a digital journey to then improve the physical experience when you get there."

New and improved lounges will further increase Priority Pass' value

Evans said Priority Pass has added about 200 lounges, restaurants, and other spaces to its network in 2024 to provide more choice and a better overall experience.

I personally hope places like Newark, Denver, and Philadelphia airports see future options, as none have a proper Priority Pass lounge.

I actually try to avoid flying out of New Jersey's Newark airport — the alternative to my local New York City airports — for this reason.

Philadelphia, however, is soon getting a Chase-branded lounge as the bank expands its airport network. Reserve card members have access.

New York-JFK, LaGuardia, San Diego, Boston, Hong Kong, and Phoenix airports each also have one, and more are coming to airports like Las Vegas.

Chase is taking on competitors American Express and Capital One as banks race to take advantage of the growing interest in credit card-branded airport lounges. Amex's Centurion network is the largest of the three.

I have considered adding the Amex Platinum card to have Centurion in places without Priority Pass, like Denver (and Newark, come 2026).

But the card would add another $695 a year (at the time of publication), and I am happy with the value I get from my Chase Reserve card for now.

It's hands-down easier and more affordable than chasing expensive airline status.