Title: Swarming Drones Will Be On The Russian-Ukrainian Battlefield In 2025
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/vikrammittal/2025/01/02/swarming-drones-will-be-on-the-russian-ukrainian-battlefield-in-2025/
--------------------------------------------------

Swarms Of Drones

Swarm technology enables multiple drones to function as a coordinated unit rather than as isolated entities. They have the potential to offer substantial advantages, particularly in coordinating an attack with real-time information sharing. For a simple swarm, one drone can provide overwatch for other drones that are performing an attack, feeding the other drone operators with information to make the attack more effective. More advanced swarms would automate much of this process, such that when one drone in the swarm detects a counter-drone systems, it can relay the threat details to the rest of the swarm. The swarm can then autonomously take evasive action to increase their likelihood of completing their mission. However, the algorithms that underly this automation requires decentralized yet synchronized decision-making in a dynamic environment, often in the presence of enemy jamming. Recognizing these challenges, many countries are investing heavily in swarm technology and incorporating it into development efforts and test exercises.

Ukraine currently holds an edge in swarm technology through its ability to leverage advancements from the commercial sector, including artificial intelligence which supports a swarm’s ability to make decisions. It is commonly reported in social media that over the past year Ukraine has been deploying swarms of 3 to 10 drones, although the level of autonomous collaboration between the drones is unknown. Following current trends, the size of the swarms and their level of autonomy are both expected to increase in 2025. Meanwhile, Russia has yet to integrate swarm technology into its drone fleet. However, Alexei Rogozin, a prominent figure in the Russian drone and aviation industries, recently stated that Russia will start fielding swarming systems this year out of necessity to keep up with Ukraine.

Countering Drone Swarms

The integration of swarm technology is a natural response to advancements in counter-drone systems. Both Russia and Ukraine employ layered counter-drone defenses that include kinetic and non-kinetic measures. Non-kinetic systems use electronic warfare to exploit vulnerabilities in drone navigation and command signals. However, these systems typically are effective for a few weeks, at which time the targeted drones are updated to fix the exploited vulnerability. These systems are combined with kinetic counter-drone systems, which use projectiles to neutralize drones. These systems are being integrated into their short-range air defense networks, with smaller systems being pushed out to small units at the front.

MORE FOR YOU

Conventional Russian and Ukrainian counter-drone defenses will face challenges with swarms. Although non-kinetic systems have the potential to neutralize large groups of drones, as done by Russia early in the war, swarm technology complicates this approach by requiring the simultaneous jamming of numerous signals. Swarms typically operate in a nodal network, allowing a drone to receive critical information from other drones even if one communication pathway is jammed. The short distances between drones further strengthen their network signals, making them harder to disrupt. Kinetic systems also struggle, as they can only target a limited number of drones at a time. This forces the system to prioritize which drones to engage, while the rest of the swarm adjusts its flight patterns to evade being targeted.

Given these challenges, both sides will have to adopt alternative strategies to counter the swarm threat. Once deployed, a swarm of drones will be difficult to stop, so there will be increased efforts to disrupt drones prior to being launched. Such attacks are already occurring, with Russia claiming that their strikes on Ukrainian infrastructure are intended to disrupt Ukraine’s drone development efforts. Meanwhile, Ukraine recently struck a storage facility containing 400 Shahed loitering munitions. Both sides will intensify these attacks on locations related to the drone storage and production, including strikes on facilities related to producing components used in drones.

Wars have historically driven technological advancements, as both sides strive for an edge on the battlefield. World War I advanced automotive technology, while World War II propelled modern aviation. Similarly, the Russia-Ukraine War has accelerated drone development over the past 34 months. Today’s drones are significantly more advanced than those at the war’s onset, and as the conflict continues, swarm technology is emerging as the next logical step. As 2025 progresses, the Russian-Ukrainian battlefield will see an increasing number of swarming drones. In response, both sides will need to develop innovative strategies to counter the escalating drone threat.