Title: New Dodger Ohtani says Seoul MLB games will be 'great memories' for him and wife
Source: Japan Today
URL: https://japantoday.com/category/sports/new-dodger-ohtani-says-seoul-mlb-games-will-be-%27great-memories%27-for-him-and-wife
--------------------------------------------------

Please upgrade to a more modern version to fully experience JapanToday site and for security reasons

JapanToday
			Sotokanda S Bldg. 4F
					5-2-1 Sotokanda
					Chiyoda-ku
					Tokyo 101-0021
					Japan
					Tel: +81 3 5829 5900
					Fax: +81 3 5829 5919
			Email: editor@japantoday.com
			©2026
			GPlusMedia Inc.

The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.

Learn how to get a mortgage in Japan. The webinar will be held from 7pm to 8pm (JST) on June 25 (Thursday), 2026.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.

@fxgai--yeah I think many know Ippei, and those who follow the two of them can see he is more than a mere contract interpreter. He usually drives their car and films practices. Ippei came to MLB from the Fighters at the same time as Shohei so they are a package deal of sorts. Pretty sweet gig from the looks of it.

South Korean media have churned out stories on Ohtani, mostly in a positive tone, with social media filled with messages supporting and praising the Japanese phenomenon. Members of his fan club in South Korea put up placards welcoming Ohtani’s arrival at Incheon international airport on Friday.

That’s not an usual South Korean treatment of any celebrity from Japan, given the two countries’ strong rivalry in sports and other areas mainly due to Japan’s past colonization of the Korean Peninsula.

“Japan and Korea, they’ve always had a great rivalry when it comes to sports. I’ve always watched the games between Japan and Korea and I always respected, looked up to Team Korea and Korean players,” Ohtani said.

I love it when both sides put aside their differences and politics and just enjoy.

"...and I always respected, looked up to Team Korea and Korean players,” Ohtani said."

Loved watching Ohtani at Angel Stadium, wish I could see him in Seoul!

And by the way, what a GREAT idea to have the opener, or any games, in Seoul. When will they have a game in Japan?

I guess they know it won't be long before SK surpasses Japan in terms of economy on top of everything else, hence the opener there, and not here.

"“Japan and Korea, they’ve always had a great rivalry when it comes to sports. I’ve always watched the games between Japan and Korea and I always respected, looked up to Team Korea and Korean players,” Ohtani said."

Weird... here I was thinking it was the Padres and the Dodgers, not Japan vs. South Korea.

Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.

Learn how to get a mortgage in Japan. The webinar will be held from 7pm to 8pm (JST) on June 25 (Thursday), 2026.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.