Title: Lancôme Revolutionizes the Travel Retail Experience with the Génifique Ultimate Traveler’s Repair Clinic
Source: HYPEBEAST
URL: https://hypebeast.com/2024/9/lancome-revolutionizes-travel-retail-experience-genifique-ultimate-travelers-repair-clinic-singapore
--------------------------------------------------

Lancôme is elevating the travel experience at Singapore Changi Airport with the unveiling of the Génifique Ultimate Traveler’s Repair Clinic — the largest activation ever in the Terminal 1 Central Piazza. In partnership with the best-in-class Shilla Duty-Free Singapore and Changi Airport Group, the beauty brand invites travelers to experience the future of skincare.

Lancôme pushes forth beauty innovation that is backed by science and research, and this revolutionary milestone offers some of the company’s latest advancements: such as the Génefique Ultimate Serum and access to its first-ever AI beauty consultant, Génefique AI. This activation also cements Lancôme as the first brand to transform and personalize the Jewel Changi Airport, debuting a SkyTrain and pillar wraps — creating an immersive experience for travelers.

The Repair Clinic offers an unparalleled customized shopping experience, allowing for some much-needed R&R between busy travels. As those on the go often experience skin troubles from changes in climate and environmental stressors, the Génifique Ultimate Traveler’s Repair Clinic provides solutions to pesky skin concerns and offers individualized skincare product recommendations.

When travelers first step into the advanced experience, they are met with a futuristic LED hologram display of Génifique Ultimate: Lancôme’s new skin-repairing serum. The serum is powered by 27 years of repair science and includes BetaGlucan-CM, an ingredient that supplements the skin barrier and boosts skin acceleration. The clinic also allows customers a deeper dive into the serum, displaying a microscopic view of Beta Glucan, and providing details about Lancôme’s ingredient process on an interactive, motion-led RFID display screen.

Before jetsetting, travelers also can opt for complimentary skin services and treatments. A quick personalized skin analysis is a convenient tune-up for those in a rush, while Lancôme also offers the Pro-Radiance Booster Service, a 10-minute facial for more radiant, glowing skin. Bringing repair beyond the service, guests will also have the chance to enjoy repair shots filled with healthy nutrients and antioxidants.

“We have created a truly groundbreaking activation that sets a new standard for travel retail. Redefining our consumers’ travel experience with innovation, expertise and immersion — pre, during and post-trip!” says Linda Wang, General Manager of Lancôme Travel Retail Asia Pacific.