Title: A confluence of innovation and honored traditions: South Korea 2024
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/guide/korea/
--------------------------------------------------

The "Korean Wave" — the global popularity the country's cultural economy has gained thanks to K-pop, K-dramas and movies — is washing across the globe faster than ever. However, the country's entertainment culture is just one of a long list of reasons why South Korea should be on your 2024 travel list.

Four distinct seasons provide a stunning backdrop year-round. Take in the magic of Jinhae's cotton-candy cherry blossoms in the spring or tour the historic temples of Naejangsa and Taeansa against fiery autumn landscapes.

South Korea also plays host to several festivals throughout the year. About two hours from Seoul, the coastal city of Gyeongju celebrates the Gyeongju Cherry Blossom Festival in the spring. Travelers flock to a small mountain town in the heart of the country for the fall Muju Firefly Festival. Head to the sunny coast of Busan for summer's Busan Sea Festival. Experience the beauty of winter in the spectacular Taebaek Mountains, where the Taebaeksan Mountain Snow Festival takes place. It was the backdrop for many events during the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics.

Related: How to get to South Korea on points and miles

The past and the future intersect everywhere you look in the capital, Seoul, where heritage sites like Jongmyo Shrine coexist with futuristic architecture, including the Zaha Hadid-designed Dongdaemun Design Plaza and the striking Seoul City Hall with its seven-story vertical garden wall and waves of steel and glass.

The capital city is also home to five royal palaces, including Changdeokgung Palace (a UNESCO World Heritage Site) and Gyeongbokgung Palace (Seoul's main royal palace).

Visitors can see the fruits of a five-year restoration of Gyeongbokgung Palace's Gyejodang. The pavilion, which was destroyed by the Japanese colonial government around 1910, was formerly home to the crown princes of the Joseon dynasty. It's the first time in over 110 years the facility has been opened to the public. The main hall, several rooms, ceremonial facilities, surrounding pathways and outer wall were restored using traditional and historically accurate materials and techniques.

On the other end of the spectrum, set to open in late 2024, the Seoul Robot and AI Museum will showcase science and technology through interactive exhibits featuring artificial intelligence and virtual reality. Robots used in the museum's construction will participate in day-to-day operations, such as leading tours and guiding visitors to various exhibits.

New spaces and exhibitions await visitors at the Busan Museum of Art, which showcases modern Korean artwork, too. Renovations begin in 2024 and will focus on high-tech features like evolving 3D projections.

Also, youth tour company Contiki has announced the first-ever Korean Wave trip to South Korea to showcase local pop culture. Set for March 2024, the tour features a K-pop dance class, behind-the-scenes visits to popular music video locations and a high-speed rail trip to Busan.

South Korea has a robust shopping scene as well, with everything from local crafts to high-end cosmetics. Gangnam Station's underground shopping center is home to over 600 stores teeming with great deals on K-beauty items, clothes and accessories. Hit up Seoul's Myeong-dong district for a mind-blowing selection of the most popular Korean skincare and cosmetic brands. Head to Hongdae, near Hongik University, for thrift store finds, local art and various crafts.

Carve out time to experience South Korea's rich food culture — from sweet culinary trends like the popular croiffle (a croissant baked with a waffle maker) to traditional dishes like bulgogi (a marinated meat dish believed to date back to the Goguryeo period from the first century B.C.E.).

Savor modern interpretations of traditional dishes eaten by Korean royals at Poom Seoul. The seasonally changing menu may feature songi beoseot tang (fresh pine mushroom soup), nakji bae naengchae (chilled octopus and pear salad) and house-made kimchi. Your meal also comes with impressive views of the city, thanks to the restaurant's spot on Namsan Mountain.

Whether tucking into bindaetteok (mung bean pancake) or devouring a steaming bowl of bibimbap piled with vegetables, barley, kimchi and usually a fried egg on top (and sometimes meat), sampling street food at Seoul's Gwangjang Market is a must.

Also, quirky cafes, including Ddong Cafe in Seoul's Jongno district, are in no short supply here. Ddong translates to "poop" in English (yes, you read that correctly). The cafe pays homage to it with poo-themed decor, toilet bowl mugs and dishes, and graffiti.

South Korea has an extensive collection of points-friendly properties. One of the newest, the JW Marriott Jeju Resort & Spa, is a luxury clifftop retreat overlooking the East China Sea. It opened in 2023 and was designed by well-known architect Bill Bensley.

Related: The 26 best Marriott hotels in the world

Your World of Hyatt points, meanwhile, will come in handy at the Andaz Seoul Gangnam, where a locally inspired aesthetic takes center stage. Expect design details like bojagi, a traditional Korean cloth used to create textile art. Guests can also enjoy hot tubs, a sauna and an herb bath in the wellness center, as well as a lap pool illuminated by a 7-meter LED screen that scrolls through eye-catching images of Seoul.

In 2025, the luxury resort brand Capella Hotels & Resorts is set to open its first Korean property, Capella Yang Yang, near Songjeon Beach in Yangyang, Gangwon Province, where travelers venture to enjoy its pristine pine forests and ultra-fresh seafood.

Travelers eager to explore South Korea's vast lures can take advantage of the country's increased airlift. United Airlines increased its routes between Incheon International Airport (ICN) and San Francisco International Airport (SFO) to 12 flights weekly. In 2024, Air Premia will add flights between Seoul and Honolulu.