Title: 4 people receive Public Spiritedness Awards for attempting to detain suspected thief
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/spf-4-people-public-spiritedness-awards-thief-housebreaking-cash-3744736
--------------------------------------------------

Advertisement

Singapore

4 people try to foil burglary attempt in Pasir Ris house; suspect later arrested

The 35-year-old man is believed to be linked to other housebreakings in the area.

04 Sep 2023 01:01PM (Updated: 04 Sep 2023 11:07PM)

Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.

Read a summary of this article on FAST.

Get bite-sized news via a new

cards interface. Give it a try.

Click here to return to FAST Tap here to return to FAST

FAST

SINGAPORE: Four people have received Public Spiritedness Awards for attempting to detain a man allegedly involved in a series of housebreaking and theft cases, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) said on Monday (Sep 4).

The four members of the public – Mr Goh Kim Hock, Mr Gan Kok Beng, Ms Abaya Rizzalyn Estrella and Ms Chita Guzman Abaya – were lauded for their "courage and public spiritedness in attempting to detain the man before the arrival of police officers".

Wei Qingyou, 35, was charged on Monday with two counts of housebreaking, an offence that carries a jail term of up to 10 years, a fine, or both.

Police were alerted to a case of housebreaking at a home along Pasir Ris Road at about 8.55pm on Sep 1, and Wei was allegedly seen attempting to flee from the residential unit while carrying a black haversack.

"Two foreign domestic workers, aged 27 and 56, and two men, aged 69 and 70, attempted to detain the man," SPF said in a news release.

"They managed to pull off the black haversack that the man was carrying before he fled.

"The black haversack was found to contain cash, foreign currencies, valuables, clothing and housebreaking implements such as a bolt cutter, a hacksaw and screwdrivers."

A shirt and a mask recovered from the haversack were sent to the Health Sciences Authority for forensic DNA examination, SPF added.

The police subsequently received two more reports of housebreaking that are believed to be linked to Wei. Both incidents occurred at homes along Pasir Ris Terrace.

One was received at 11.10pm on Sep 1 with S$1,500 (US$1,110) in cash reported missing. The other was received at 2.20pm on Sep 2 with no reported losses.

Closed-circuit television footage revealed that Wei was involved in a fourth unreported case of housebreaking in the area.

Wei was identified following extensive ground enquiries and with the aid of CCTV images.

02:34 Min

Officers from Bedok Police Division - supported by officers from the Police Operations Command Centre, Police Intelligence Department, Special Operations Command, Gurkha Contingent, Airport Police Division and the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority - subsequently arrested Wei.

Wei, who is a Chinese national, was nabbed at the departure area of Changi Airport Terminal 4 on Sep 2 at about 3.30pm, before he could leave Singapore, the police said.

"Cash amounting to more than S$1,600 in Singapore dollars, and about S$1,900 worth in various foreign currencies, were recovered from the man."

Police advice to prevent housebreaking and theft

SPF advised members of the public to stay vigilant and adopt the following crime prevention measures to avoid becoming victims of housebreaking and theft:

• Install a burglar alarm, motion sensor lights and/or CCTV systems to cover the access points into premises, and ensure that they are tested periodically and are in good working condition

• Secure all doors, roller shutters, windows and other openings with good quality grilles and close-shackled padlocks before leaving premises unattended, even for a short while

• Refrain from keeping large sums of cash and valuables on premises

• Inform neighbours if you are going overseas and leaving your premises empty for long periods of time – let them know the duration of your absence and how you can be contacted if necessary

Collapse Expand

Bedok Police Division Commander Assistant Commissioner of Police Justin Wong said that the suspect "showed a blatant disregard for the law by committing housebreaking and theft while in Singapore".

"I would like to commend the bravery of the migrant domestic workers and members of the public who confronted the suspect," he added.

"This case exemplifies how the police work hand-in-hand with the community to keep Singapore safe and secure."

Source: CNA/kg(zl)

Sign up for our newsletters

Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox

Get the CNA app

Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories

Get WhatsApp alerts

Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app

Advertisement

Also worth reading

Content is loading...

Advertisement

Get bite-sized news via a new

cards interface. Give it a try.

Click here to return to FAST Tap here to return to FAST

FAST