Title: Singapore Airlines Plans Refit For Airbus A350-900s With New First Class and Business Class
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/singapore-airlines-plans-refit-for-airbus-a350-900s-with-new-first-class-and-business-class/
--------------------------------------------------

1.6K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Singapore Airlines announced today that it is planning to upgrade its Airbus A350-900 aircraft by updating its long-haul cabin products across 41 Airbus A350-900 and adding First Class to its seven Airbus A350-900ULR aircraft. These upgrades will cost the airline around $835 million.

Passengers that are flying Singapore’s longest routes from Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) and New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK) to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) will see a new, luxurious First Class cabin. Details are scant, but it looks like quite a bit of real estate will be dedicated to each of these seats. This same seat designs will be featured on the airline’s upcoming Boeing 777-9 aircraft.

Business Class customers will also see new, innovative designs with more privacy, comfort, and convenience in all 41 of its Airbus A350-900 aircraft. These look like they’ll have sliding doors and will be mini suites. Premium Economy Class and Economy Class cabins will also be refreshed as part of these upgrades.

Goh Choon Phong, Chief Executive Officer, Singapore Airlines, said:

Over the past six years, we have extensively engaged customers and stakeholders in the design of our next-generation long-haul cabin products, anticipating their evolving preferences and expectations down to the finest detail.

The new First Class and Business Class seat designs will incorporate thoughtful elements that push the boundaries of comfort, luxury, and modernity, allowing our customers to relax or work effortlessly on board. Premium Economy Class and Economy Class customers can also look forward to refreshed cabin interiors that enhance their travel experience.

The S$1.1 billion investment in retrofitting our 41 A350 aircraft reaffirms Singapore Airlines’ unwavering commitment to delivering an exceptional travel experience. The introduction of these next-generation seats and KrisWorld system, together with the world-renowned warm and attentive service of our cabin crew, will set new standards in innovation, customer experience, and service excellence.”

The aircraft will be retrofitted with the first Airbus A350-900 expected to enter service in Q2 of 2026. The first Airbus A350-900ULR variant will follow in the Q1 of 2027. All retrofits will be complete by 2030. Once updated, the 34 Airbus A350-900 will be configured with 42 Business Class, 24 Premium Economy Class, and 192 Economy Class seats. The seven A350-900ULR will feature four First Class, 70 Business Class, and 58 Premium Economy Class seats.

Anthony’s Take: I’ve flown Singapore First and Business several times before and loved the experience each time. I’m excited to see what’s coming next.

(Image Credits: Singapore Airlines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.