Title: Intro for February 3, 2026
Source: LaineyGossip
URL: https://www.laineygossip.com/bts-appearance-at-incheon-airport-yesterday-made-highly-anticipated-return-feel-that-much-more-real/
--------------------------------------------------

Dear Gossips,

We are now just over six weeks away from BTS’s comeback and the release of their new album ARIRANG. Yesterday was a big day for ARMY – because OT7 is on the move. All seven members, RM, Jin, Suga, j-hope, Jimin, V, and Jungkook were at Incheon airport departing for work, travelling together for the first time in years.

This used to be a familiar-ish sight, for BTS to show up at Incheon in solidarity, greeted by hundreds of local media and fans. And then, of course, they each fulfilled their national obligation to their country, and explored their respective solo projects. For those of us who’ve been here a while, then, seeing them yesterday – respectful, playful, purposeful – heading out of town as they approach their highly anticipated return made it feel that much more real.

It’s only a few minutes of footage and most of them have their faces covered but there are takeaways. The first takeaway is that they seem just as excited as we are. That they too are thrilled to be doing this again as a group, falling into the rhythm that they maintained during the first decade of their careers together. And, also, to me at least, they look SO READY. There’s an all-business energy that’s happening here, not only a sports team poised for victory before the championship game coming through the tunnel.

And, indeed, there is a LOT of business on the way. First, they were heading to Dubai. Here they are upon arrival and apparently, LOL, Suga made it a point of getting some Dubai chocolate, one of the most viral foods of 2025.

ARMYs are now speculating that they’re shooting a motorsport-themed race car video at the Dubai Autodrome.

Then there was the Netflix announcement.

Look at how many likes and comments there are on that post, almost tripling the traffic that their accounts were seeing with their Stranger Things posts.

As expected, BTS’s public comeback concert in Seoul at Gwanghwamun Square immediately following the release of ARIRANG will be livestreamed. What’s new, and huge, is that it will be on Netflix, now that BTS’s multi-year deal with Disney+ has concluded. Weverse is typically where BTS has done many of their previous live shows, for an added fee. Netflix, however, is much more accessible – and they have said that they want to reach as many ARMYs possible. Then, a week later, the documentary that tracks their comeback. All of this precedes their tour kickoff in April. WE ARE BEING FED!

So it doesn’t matter what that rodent did or didn’t see yesterday. Our “Spring Day” is coming.

Yours in gossip,

Lainey