Title: United Unveils its New Polaris Seats, Including the Larger Polaris Studio
Source: Atxjetsetter.com
URL: https://atxjetsetter.com/post/united-unveils-its-new-polaris-seats-including-the-larger-polaris-studio/
--------------------------------------------------

As expected, United Airlines just unveiled the next generation of its Polaris Business Class and it looks seriously impressive. While the hard product has the same bones as American Airlines’ recently unveiled Flagship Business Class, the soft product on United will certainly set this experience apart.

United Unveils the Elevated Aircraft Interior, with New Business Class Suites

United Airlines has just unveiled the next generation of the carrier’s Polaris Business Class as part of a nose-to-tail transformation of its aircraft with the new Elevate interior. The new interior will include two different Business Class suites, including the new Polaris Studio, the largest number of premium seats in the United fleet, Starlink Wi-Fi, and larger 4K OLED seatback IFE screens.

Andrew Nocella, Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer at United, said this about the new onboard experience:

“We already deliver a superior international experience and fly to the most places across the Atlantic and Pacific – these new innovations provide a more premium experience overall, give customers even more reasons to choose United, and set our airline up to grow into the next decade and beyond. We never stand still and are always looking for more ways to set ourselves apart from other carriers. And we’re confident this elevated experience will take international flying to new heights.”

The new interiors will be outfitted on the carrier’s yet to be delivered Boeing 787-9 aircraft. These planes will be in United’s most premium configuration ever and feature 64 Business Class seats (8 Polaris Studio suites and 56 Polaris Business Class suites) and 35 Premium Plus (Premium Economy) seats.

The aircraft will also have 33 Economy Plus and 90 Economy seats. As a point of reference, United’s 787-9s currently have 48 United Polaris seats, 21 United Premium Plus seats, 39 United Economy Plus seats and 149 United Economy seats.

United’s New Polaris Studio Suites Provide an Elevated Business Class Experience

The most premium seat, or seats since there are eight of them, in the house is the new Polaris Studio. The seats are located at the front of each Business Class cabin, four in each, and include upgraded features and more space for passengers. According to United, these will be priced differently than standard United Polaris seats.

While the Polaris Studio suites are elevated over the standard Polaris Business Class seats, not all Studio suites are created equal. Six of the eight seats will have an ottoman with a secondary seatbelt which can be used as a buddy seat inflight.

All Polaris Studio suites will have a 27-inch, 4K OLED IFE touchscreen which United states is the largest among all U.S. carriers. It’s certainly larger than the screens that were delivered on American’s first premium-heavy aircraft.

Each seat will also feature Bluetooth connectivity, wireless charging, digital seat controls, quartzite tables, a wool blend seat material, wood grain trim, and USB-C and 110V charging outlets.

In addition to the hard product, the amenities for Polaris Studio passengers have also been elevated. Passengers will receive hoodie pajamas (I need a pair of these) and slippers on all flights, exclusive to Polaris Studio passengers, along with noise cancelling headphones, upgraded amenity kits, playing cards (put that buddy seat to good use), velvet throw pillow, and Saks Fifth Avenue bedding complete with a duvet, day blanket, large pillow and cooling gel pillow.

On the culinary front, United Studio passengers will receive an Ossetra caviar amuse-bouche service along with a post meal specialty snack box featuring sweet and salty treats. United Studio passengers will also have access to exclusive entree options as well as specialty champagne like Laurent-Perrier Cuvée Rosé.

The elevated experience for Polaris Studio passengers isn’t just onboard. Passengers will receive elevated service from the time they arrive at the airport. Polaris Studio passengers will have access to United’s Global Reception check-in, preboard alongside Global Services customers, and have access to the airline’s tarmac transfer service.

United Unveils its Next Generation Polaris Business Class Seat

While the Polaris Studio might be new, Polaris Business Class has been the standard for United’s premium cabin offering since 2016. Now, the next generation Polaris Business Class has been revealed and it looks like a massive improvement over the current offering.

The new seats have one major upgrade which will no doubt make travelers happy, sliding doors. In addition to the new suite style seats, passengers traveling in the new Polaris will have a 19-inch 4K OLED IFE touchscreen with Bluetooth, four ways to charge devices including wireless charging, and digital seat controls.

Like the current product, the new Polaris seats are staggered which allows customers to choose between seats facing the window and those facing the center of the aircraft. If you’re flying together the center of the aircraft is likely best as the divider lowers all the way down to bed height allowing for easier communication. Like the Polaris Studio, seats will also be made of wool-blend materials.

Finally, United is adding a grab-and-go snack counter in the galley between the forward and aft Polaris cabins. This will remain stocked with snacks and beverages for passengers throughout the flight.

United Premium Plus and Economy Cabins Also Receive Upgrades

The front of the aircraft isn’t the only place that’s feeling the love with these changes as United has upgraded the experience for passengers traveling in Premium Plus and Economy.

Premium Plus seats will be outfitted with touches typically reserved for Business Class including soft-touch materials, quartzite cocktail tables, Bluetooth connectivity, three ways to charge devices, including wireless charging, and a 16-inch 4K OLED IFE screen. Premium Plus seats also include dedicated water bottle and headphone holders and a privacy divider with a built-in reading light.

Finally, in Economy, passengers will 13-inch 4K OLED IFE screens, the largest Economy IFE screens in the world according to the airline, which are all equipped with Bluetooth connectivity. Six power outlets per row are available to help customers stay connected though I’m surprised they didn’t include USB charging in the seatback.

Rollout Timeline for Newly Equipped Aircraft

United expects to take delivery of its first Boeing 787-9 with the new interiors sometime before the end of 2025. The carrier plans to launch revenue service in early 2026 with flights between its hub at San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and London’s Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Singapore’s Changi Airport (SIN).

All of the airline’s future Boeing 787 deliveries will be equipped with the Polaris Studio suites and Elevated interiors. In all, United expects to have 30 aircraft in its fleet by 2027.

My Thoughts

The new United Elevated interior looks fantastic and the new Polaris Studio and Polaris Business Class are a massive improvement over the carrier’s, very nice, current product. The interiors are warm and welcoming while still appearing modern and the large IFE screens put American’s newly announced cabins to shame.

While I haven’t started planning my travels for 2026 yet, this is an aircraft I’d love to fly, even on a positioning flight between hubs, should the opportunity present itself.

I know many United frequent flyers will be happy with the new interiors and, with the most premium seats of any current United plane, these new 787-9s should provide a great opportunity for passengers looking to use points and miles or upgrade into a more premium cabin.

Summary

United Airlines has officially unveiled its new interior design which will be outfitted on all of the carriers outstanding Boeing 787 orders. The new interiors feature eight new, ultra-premium, Polaris Studio Business Class seats which come with extra amenities both in the air and on the ground.

At a whopping 99 premium seats, 64 Business Class and 35 Premium Economy seats, this will be the airline’s most premium configuration to date and I can’t wait for the opportunity to hop onboard.

(Images courtesy United Airlines)