Title: Air France and Asiana Airlines Add Flights to Las Vegas for CES 2024
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-france-and-asiana-airlines-add-flights-to-las-vegas-for-ces-2024/
--------------------------------------------------

2.1K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

The Consumer Electronics Show (CES) is an annual trade show held by the Consumer Technology Association in January at the Las Vegas Convention Center. I attended for many years and it’s great to be able to see what technology, gadgets, and innovations are coming next. Airlines generally add nonstop flights for the show and some of those routes are starting to pop up with Air France and Asiana Airlines adding nonstop options to their schedules.

CES 2024 will run from January 9th to the 12th. It’s always cool to see airlines capitalize on the demand for this huge show and connect cities with Las Vegas nonstop on routes that don’t appear any other time of the year. Internationally, Harry Reid Las Vegas International Airport (LAS) normally has flights to/from:

Schiphol Amsterdam Airport (AMS) (3x to 6x weekly; year-round on KLM)

Frankfurt Airport (FRA) (3x to 5x weekly; year-round on Lufthansa-owned Discover Airlines)

London Heathrow Airport (LHR) (daily; year-round on British Airways and Virgin Atlantic)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (5x weekly; year-round on Korean Air)

For CES, Air France is offering flights from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) on January 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th. These flights will be served by an Airbus A350-900.

Asiana Airlines is also adding flights from Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) on January 7th, 8th, 12th, and 13th. This will add capacity to the route already flown by Korean Air. These flights will also use an Airbus A350-900.

Delta announced a few months ago that it would be offering its own international flights to Harry Reid Las Vegas International Airport (LAS) from Schiphol Amsterdam Airport (AMS), Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG), and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (more here).

Domestically, United Airlines has increased capacity by as much as 37% and added flights to Las Vegas from places like Boston Logan International Airport (BOS), Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL), Orlando International Airport (MCO), and San Jose Mineta International Airport (SJC). Its CES schedule has yet to be announced this year.

Anthony’s Take: CES is an incredible and overwhelming event. I went many years when I was in the tech vertical and am sure I’ll return. As an AvGeek, I love seeing all the new flights and routes each year. Stay tuned for more.

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.