Title: Passengers suffer nosebleeds, ear pain after Boeing 737 MAX 8 cabin pressure system malfunctions
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4246224/posts
--------------------------------------------------

The New York Post ^ | 6/23/2024 | Isabel Keane

Posted on by T.B. Yoits

A Boeing 737 MAX 8 jet was forced to turn around and passengers began to suffer from nosebleeds and ear pain following a malfunction with the plane’s cabin pressurization system, according to reports.

Passengers on Korean Air Flight KE189, bound for the Taiwanese city of Taichung, reported that the plane’s systems began experience a problem soon after the flight took off Saturday afternoon.

Less than one hour into the trip, the plane turned back to Incheon International Airport in Seoul, South Korea, Yonhap News Agency reported.

A a result of the malfnction, the Boeing 737 Max 8 was forced to rapidly descend from an altitude of over 30,000 feet to about 9,000 feet, Dimsum Daily Hong Kong reported. Korean Air flight A Korean Air plane headed for Taiwan was forced to turn around after passengers began experiencing nosebleeds and ear pain. AFP via Getty Images

The dramatic drop caused extreme discomfort and even health issues for some of the 125 passengers on board.

At least two passengers experienced nosebleeds as a result of the sudden shift, and an additional 15 passengers complained of ear pain and hyperventilation.

One passenger reported the sudden drops in altitude the G-force of an extreme rollercoaster.

Some 13 passengers required medical attention, according to South Korean authorities.

Despite, the chaos, no serious injuries were reported among the affected passengers.

(Excerpt) Read more at nypost.com ...

TOPICS: Business/Economy; News/Current Events

KEYWORDS: aviation; boeing; cabin; nosebleeds; pressure Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-38 next last

Hyped up story since only two passengers had nosebleeds but likely points to the ongoing issues of shortages of talented maintenance personnel in the commercial aviation industry.

1 posted on by T.B. Yoits

To: T.B. Yoits

One would have to be an idiot to step foot into a Boeing aircraft.

2 posted on by Kevin in California (EP)

To: Kevin in California

It seems like the airlines flying Boeing aircraft have a worse manpower situation in their aircraft maintenance groups than airlines flying Airbus airplanes.

3 posted on by T.B. Yoits

To: T.B. Yoits

This is why Boeing recommends you bring your own space suit.

4 posted on by Telepathic Intruder

To: T.B. Yoits

If you’re on the Boeing Max 737, better be prepared to go to heaven.

5 posted on by vespa300

To: Kevin in California

I think the problem is the delegation of too many functions to computers.

6 posted on by Blood of Tyrants (Gender dysphoria is now a federally protected mental illness.)

To: Kevin in California

Funny, there were three Airbus related incidents this week that required return to the airport but all we hear about is Boeing.

7 posted on by pfflier

To: pfflier

Boeing!

8 posted on by MinorityRepublican

To: Blood of Tyrants

The problem is that Boeing went in for 100% outsourcing a variety “builds” that go into their aircraft.

Small companies with little overhead and SOP’s below Boeing offered to build various parts cheaper.

In essence, Boeing outsourced their “core competency” to companies that had no business playing in the game.

9 posted on by Herodes

To: T.B. Yoits

A few months ago we had cabin pressure loss and my wife got detached retina and temporary deafness. It is a real thing. People have had pierced eardrums.

10 posted on by gibsonguy

To: gibsonguy

Did she get the retina reattached?

11 posted on by HerrBlucher

To: gibsonguy

12 posted on by T.B. Yoits

To: Kevin in California

Stick to Airbus.

They’re only grou0nding hundreds of A330’s due to engine issues.

13 posted on by Freest Republican (There is no tyranny that cannot be justified by imbeciles)

To: T.B. Yoits

I still say that all the stories about Boeing plan malfunctions are leading up to a major plane crash with someone on board that the left needs to be rid of.

They are not above killing hundreds of people to rid themselves of one thorn in their side. And, they plan ahead to do so.

14 posted on by CFW

To: T.B. Yoits

15 posted on by Chad C. Mulligan (Your insults are my rocket fuel. More please!)

To: HerrBlucher

Yes but there was a delay because it took a few days for it to fully break and we were on cruise ship. Immediate treatment is crucial for best outcomes.

16 posted on by gibsonguy

To: gibsonguy

yep, i had two detached retinas at the same time in early 2022, they got to one eye in time and I have perfect vision in it, the other one not so much but still good vision. The wonders of modern medicine i am so appreciative of it otherwise I would be blind now.

17 posted on by HerrBlucher

To: T.B. Yoits

In our case they had to abort a landing for some reason which caused a pressure problem. They make a product called earplane which will prevent a torn eardrum. I would recommend it as a precaution.

18 posted on by gibsonguy

To: CFW

19 posted on by T.B. Yoits

To: gibsonguy

20 posted on by zeestephen (Trump "Lost" By 43,000 Votes - Spread Across Three States - GA, WI, AZ)

Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-38 next last

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson