Title: The Sector Impact of Alternative Reality Technologies
Source: GlobeNewswire
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2024/01/25/2817329/28124/en/The-Sector-Impact-of-Alternative-Reality-Technologies.html
--------------------------------------------------

Dublin, Jan. 25, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "Immersive enterprise - The Sector Impact of Alternative Reality Technologies" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

The report, is an essential read for forward-looking enterprises. It provides a concise yet thorough examination of the transformative power of immersive platforms leveraging extended reality (XR) technologies such as augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), and mixed reality (MR) across diverse sectors, including healthcare, automotive, and financial services.

This report serves as an invaluable resource for gaining insights into how the adoption of immersive platforms not only enhances user experiences but also cultivates customer-centric strategies, fosters greater engagement, accelerates training and learning, optimizes product design, and ultimately positions businesses at the forefront of innovation.

Innovations: presents real-world innovation examples related to the immersive platforms across different sectors. It casts light on key players across different sectors utilizing immersive technologies and platforms for their sector-specific applications.

Report Scope

Innovation Insights: innovation examples by sectors on immersive platform use cases to present key trends.

No surprise that technology has been a driving force in business transformation for years, but the term 'emerging technologies' has all of a sudden become the key catalyst to drive the next wave of innovation across sectors.

The sense of urgency weighs differently across different sectors, where the direct customer-facing sectors are at the forefront compared to other capital-intensive sectors. Companies in one sector can take cues from successful innovations in other sectors to either draw analogies with existing products, services, and processes or transfer strategic approaches for a revolutionary transformation.

Against this backdrop, enterprises need to understand which emerging technologies are impacting their sector and how various companies are implementing them to meet various challenges.

The innovation landscape report on innovations in immersive platforms across sectors, published as part of an ongoing series, covers some real-world examples to advance the development and implementation of the technology by some of the key enterprises as well as startups in various sectors.

Key Topics Covered:

1. Immersive Platforms Landscape

2. Key Technologies

3. Timeline

4. Sector Use Cases

5. Real-world Innovations

6. Outlook

A selection of companies mentioned in this report includes

Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance

Alibaba

Altoura

Amazon

Audi

Autodesk

AXA XL

Bank of America

Bentley Motors

BinaryX

BMW

Changi Airport Group

Colgate-Palmolive

Collins Aerospace

Diageo

Didimo

Duality Robotics

Elizabeth Arden

Estee Lauder

Flipkart

Ford

FourPlus

FundamentalIVR

GE Healthcare

Google

H&M

Haven

Holoride

Honda Motors

Internova

Lowe's

Ludica Health

Lumeto

Macy's

Maersk Training

MeetKai

Mercedes-Benz

Meta

MicroCloud

Microsoft

Mirrorscape

Myavana

NatureEye

Nestle

Nike

NVIDIA

OCU Health Care

Ocutrx

Penumbra

PepsiCo

Perfect Corp

PropVR

Punjab National Bank

Qatar Airways

Qualcomm

Railcar Studio

Sandbox VR

SBI Life

Siemens

Skoda Auto

Snap

Sony Group

Sony Pictures

STB

Stellantis

Taqtile

TD Bank

Telia Norge

Tokio Marine

Unreal Engine

VA Immersive

Virtex Solutions

Vizalogix

Walmart

Way Experience

WiMi Hologram

Xiaomi

Zuellig Pharma

For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/s369ag

About ResearchAndMarkets.com

ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.