Title: On store
Source: Retaildesignblog.net
URL: https://retaildesignblog.net/2025/07/28/on-store-2/
--------------------------------------------------

Following an outpost in bustling Jakarta, its very first in Southeast Asia, Swiss running shoe brand On has planted a flag in Singapore. Launched in collaboration with local retailer Gill Capital, the On retail space is nestled in Jewel, the multi-storey shopping centre at Singapore Changi Airport. Occupying an approx. 864 sqm. (9,300 sq.ft.) unit on the second floor, the interior design is created in-house by the brand’s in-house design team at its headquarters in Zurich. The expansive double-level premises see an innovative retail concept rooted in the On‘s Dream On philosophy, and is designed to immerse shoppers in the world of performance innovation. As such, the various settings are infused with curved surfaces, greenery-inspired textures, and an airy lighting plan, which effortlessly elevates the shopping experience.

The design is anchored by the so-called Magic Wall, an understated modular installation brimming with On shoes. The installation is backed up by handy interactive displays which elaborate on the brand’s advanced CloudTec® cushioning and Speedboard® technology. Adding a local touch is the store façade, which is adorned with large silvery panels referencing the island nation’s ever-evolving dynamic skyline dotted with soaring skyscrapers. So, what’s on the shelves at the new On store? The ground floor presents high-performance footwear and warm-weather technical apparel, featuring hero models like the Cloudmonster and Cloudrunner. One floor up, a tennis performance zone with products co-designed with Roger Federer can be found.

Here, a lifestyle footwear wall with everyday silhouettes like the Cloudtilt and Cloud 6 is paired with a performance outdoor section. The latter features travel-ready models like the Cloudultra and Cloudrock. Additionally, a compact kids’ collection is readily available. Given the sizeable On fanbase in Singapore, the store is a also envisioned as a community hub for both athletes and aficionados, bringing all of them together and fostering a shared passion for movement. A roster of activities for the coming season includes weekly group runs, training sessions, and workshops focused on running form, injury prevention, and recovery. The new store will also serve as the home of the On Run Club Singapore, creating a space for like-minded individuals to connect, train, and push their boundaries together. © superfuture