Title: Eating At Jewel Changi Airport Wasn’t What We Expected
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2023/06/27/eating-at-jewel-changi-airport-wasnt-what-we-expected/
--------------------------------------------------

4.6K

When I booked our flights home from Southeast Asia, I scheduled a 26-hour layover at Changi Airport. The main reason was because it was our only option with Singapore Airlines but I wasn’t upset about being to explore what’s regarded as one of the best airports in the world.

I booked a room at the airport Crowne Plaza since we weren’t planning on exploring on this visit.

Besides knowing about the Water Vortex and that it’s a big mall, I knew almost nothing else about Jewel (Note from Sharon: Um, hellooooo…we knew about this! It was half the reason for going to Changi!). When we arrived in Singapore, the first thing we did was check into our room and take a nap. We had an early morning departure and no plans besides exploring Jewel that evening.

From the Crowne Plaza, it’s only a short walk to Jewel.

Once we entered the mall, we started to look for somewhere to eat. We quickly discovered that the mall was the greatest hit of brand names from around the globe. As Americans, we were embarrassed that our food culture was represented by KFC, A&W Root Beer, Dunkin, Starbucks and Shake Shack.

But we were also overwhelmed by the number of establishments from China, Hong Kong, Korea and other parts of Southeast Asia where we aren’t familiar with the food.

Suffering from paralysis from the number of options, we went for something we knew, a Japanese Izakaya.

Hitoyoshi Izakaya is located on the top floor of Jewel. More important to us was that we could understand the menu.

I ordered the Age Tebasaki (Deep Fried Chicken Wings)

and the Tonkatsu.

Sharon got adventurous and ordered the Premium Truffle Chirashi Don

After washing down our meals with some Kirin Ichiban, we wandered around the mall until closing time. It was too late to check out one of the ice cream vendors scattered around the mall.

Thanks to a late checkout at the Crowne Plaza we slept in before heading to try and find breakfast at Jewel. This was harder than you’d think unless you wanted to grab some baked goods. We ended up at a spot called Prive which was right next to where we had dinner the previous evening. This was one of the only locations that served a proper breakfast menu.

Sharon ordered the interesting named “Middle Eastern Avocado Toast” and an Americano coffee.

I went with the boring ham omelet. They had Equal sweetener for my iced latte, so I was a happy camper.

Final Thought

I don’t know what we were expecting when we planned to eat all our meals in a shopping mall for an entire day. There were plenty of options, but we didn’t want to have something we could easily get at home. After almost two weeks away from home, we’d had enough food adventures and were more interested in knowing what we’d be eating.

Our two meals were pretty great and there’s no bad scenery when sitting in Jewel. I should have done a little more advance planning and we might have found an amazing place that was out of our comfort zone. However that’s the thing about comfort zones, they’re so darn comfortable.

Bring on the avocado toast!!!!!!!

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!