Title: IHG Hotels & Resorts to debut Crowne Plaza property in Labuan Bajo
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/announcement/41010153.html
--------------------------------------------------

IHG Hotels & Resorts, one of the world's leading hotel companies, today announced a landmark partnership with MMS Land - the property and hospitality arm of MMS Group Indonesia.

The new-build Crowne Plaza Labuan Bajo will be the IHG's premium brand third property in Indonesia, and mark IHG's entry into an exciting new destination as it continues its strategic growth in the country.

Located next to Komodo International Airport and just 15 minutes from the waterfront on the most western tip of Flores Island, the hotel will provide the ideal base for guests to explore the area's many world-class wonders. These include the spectacular Komodo National Park - anointed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1991 - comprising volcanic islands that are home to more than 5,000 rare, giant 'Komodo Dragons' lizards.

On top of attracting leisure travellers, Crowne Plaza Labuan Bajo is also being developed as a leading MICE destination, with its facilities - including more than approximately 600 square metres of meeting space - set to cater for the needs of domestic and international business guests.

According to the Central Bureau of Statistics of West Manggarai Regency, the number of hotels in Labuan Bajo increased by 50% between 2016-2018, rising from 64 hotels with 1,030 rooms to 98 hotels with 1,462 rooms, making it one of Indonesia's highest-growth territories in terms of hotel development.

More recently, the Central Bureau of Statistics of East Nusa Tenggara, the province where Labuan Bajo is located, reported that star hotels in the region have shown a strong growth in demand, with a 36% increase in first quarter of 2023 as compared to 2022.

Crowne Plaza Labuan Bajo will offer guests a choice of 199 WorkLife rooms and suites across seven stories. In addition to its expansive meeting space, facilities will include the Plaza Workspace, three restaurants & bars, a fitness centre, spa and swimming pool.

Crowne Plaza Labuan Bajo will contribute to the development of the national tourism sector in West Manggarai Regency and East Nusa Tenggara (NTT) Province. As a gateway to the area's scenic islands, the hotel will appeal to adventure travellers, with water activities, including snorkeling and diving, island hopping and cave exploration nearby.

As the world's fourth largest market by population - and biggest in South East Asia - Indonesia is a key market for IHG. It's home to one of its largest portfolios in the region with 24 hotels across six brands - Six Senses Hotels Resorts Spas, InterContinental Hotels & Resorts, Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts, Hotel Indigo, Holiday Inn Hotels & Resorts and Holiday Inn Express - and 15 hotels in a pipeline that includes the upcoming brand debuts of Regent Hotels & Resorts, Vignette Collection and voco hotels.

Crowne Plaza Labuan Bajo will be the third Crowne Plaza hotel to open in Indonesia, following Crowne Plaza Bandung and Crowne Plaza Jakarta Residences - a testament to its unfaltering potential as an attractive business and travel destination.

The Crowne Plaza brand continues to expand rapidly across Asia Pacific where it has quickly become the ideal accommodation choice through a purposeful design that offers flexible spaces to work, meet and relax, while satisfying and inspiring the needs of its guests both personally and professionally. Its Plaza Workspace, a new take on the traditional hotel lobby, offers agile work and relaxation areas that promote connections and encourage informal gatherings, while the brand's patented WorkLife Room offers guests a combination of comfort, connectivity and flexibility with distinct zones for work, relaxation and sleep.

Asia Pacific is the future home of more than 90 Crowne Plaza hotels including Thailand's Crowne Plaza Bangkok Grand Sukhumvit, Malaysia's Crowne Plaza Kuala Lumpur City Centre, Crowne Plaza Penang Straits City and Crowne Plaza Kota Kinabalu Waterfront and across Australasia, Crowne Plaza Melbourne Carlton, Crowne Plaza Shell Cove Marina and Crowne Plaza Fiji Nadi Bay Resort & Spa.

These outstanding properties will follow recently-opened Crowne Plaza Vinh Yen City Centre and Crowne Plaza Phu Quoc Starbay in Vietnam, and four Crowne Plaza openings in Australia, comprising two in Sydney in Darling Harbour and Burwood, and others in Adelaide and Tasmania. IHG's renowned portfolio already includes Crowne Plaza Changi Airport - a eight-consecutive year winner of the Skytrax World's Best Airport Hotel award - the elegant Crowne Plaza Paris - Republique, and Crowne Plaza Hamburg.

*As of 30 June 2023