Title: Chinese Thief Who Stole Suitcase On Singapore Airlines Business Class Sentenced To 20 Months Prison
Source: Loyaltylobby.com
URL: https://loyaltylobby.com/2025/12/26/chinese-thief-who-stole-suitcase-on-singapore-airlines-business-class-sentenced-to-20-months-prison/
--------------------------------------------------

A Chinese passenger who was arrested in August of this year after he stole a suitcase from the overhead bins belonging to another passenger on a Singapore Airlines flight from Dubai to Singapore was sentenced to 20 months’ imprisonment.

The suspect was discovered by the wife of the victim when he removed the carry-on bag from the overhead bins after the meal service, when the lights were dimmed. After confronting him, she alerted the crew, who arranged for police upon arrival.

While no items were missing from the suitcase, as there wasn’t enough time to go through the bag after being discovered, the court found that there was enough evidence to convict this passenger for theft and handed down a stiff sentence.

What is also remarkable is that the court found out that this passenger acted on the behest of Chinese crime syndicates who organize and fund these theft operations, a theory I had for years and wrote about quite frequently.

As reported by Channel News Asia, the defendant was sentenced this week, on December 23rd.

A man who took a passenger’s luggage on a Singapore Airlines flight from Dubai to Singapore was jailed for 20 months on Tuesday (Dec 23).

Liu Ming, a 26-year-old Chinese national, pleaded guilty to one charge of theft.

The act was financed by a criminal syndicate, and Liu had boarded the flight specifically to steal high-value items from business class passengers, said the prosecution. …

Liu was seated in the business class section of flight SQ495, which left Dubai for Singapore in the evening of Aug 7.

The victim, a 52-year-old Azerbaijani man, was seated five rows in front of Liu, while his wife was seated one row in front of Liu.

The victim and Liu did not know each other.

Liu acted in the early hours of Aug 8, when the dinner service had finished and the cabin lights had been dimmed.

At the time, the victim was asleep while the victim’s wife had just woken from a short nap. The cabin crew were in the cabin pantry with the curtains drawn.

Liu walked to the victim’s seat and opened the overhead compartment. He took the victim’s luggage and carried it back to his seat.

The victim’s wife saw Liu moving her husband’s bag and confronted him, asking whether the bag belonged to him.

As she did not understand his response, she alerted the cabin crew. While she did so, Liu returned the unopened bag to the compartment above the victim’s seat and returned to his own seat.

When the cabin crew questioned him, Liu lied that he had made a mistake and was confused about his luggage.

A search of the victim’s bag confirmed that no items were missing. The total value of items in the bag exceeded S$100,000 (US$78,000).

This comprised cash in various currencies amounting to about S$12,000; a Huawei laptop worth about S$2,100; 56 cigars worth more than S$5,400; a Chopard watch worth more than S$35,000; and an Audemars Piguet watch worth more than S$51,000. …

Cabin crew notified the ground staff at Changi Airport and a police report was made. Liu was arrested upon arrival at the airport.

He was uncooperative during investigations, denying the theft and falsely maintaining that he had mistaken the victim’s bag as his own and wanted to get his toiletries.

This was even though Liu’s bag, which differed from the victim’s in appearance and material, was stored in the compartment above his own seat.

Deputy Public Prosecutor Cheah Wenjie sought 20 to 24 months’ jail for Liu. He argued for a stiff sentence because the offence engages the public interest.

“The proliferation of theft offences onboard Singapore’s national carrier would tarnish its reputation, and that of Singapore’s tourist industry,” he said. …

The sentence is certainly serious, but doesn’t include corporal punishment (caning), which might have been a better way of putting some spice in the game for future Chinese thieves trying the same stunt.

I somehow don’t believe this is a crime of chance alone, and there must be more to it, such as intel that a passenger has serious valuables in the suitcase.

It simply wouldn’t be worthwhile to go through the considerable effort and expense of letting Chinese scammers fly in Business Class throughout the world, just to be on the lookout for something worth stealing.

A flight from Dubai to Singapore in Business Class is not cheap. How and where were these tickets booked? And how often is there a random opportunity to actually steal something worthwhile the expense and risk involved?

We have read about and reported on these cases of Chinese scammers plenty of times, as they have become a serious problem for airlines and a considerable risk to passengers.

The scammers usually fly on Asian carriers throughout the region and wait for a suitable moment to go through baggage, removing valuables in-flight. Some of them have also branched out to overseas flights.

Chinese Passenger Who Stole S$120,000 On Singapore Airlines Flight Sentenced To 2.5 Years In Prison

Chinese Man Charged In Singapore After Stealing US$23,000 From Several SCOOT Passengers

Bangkok Post: “Chinese passenger arrested at Suvarnabhumi for theft on plane”

Malaysia Airlines Business Class Passenger Nabbed While Stealing From Carry-On Baggage – Watch Your Belongings!

This is a difficult situation to get under control. I guess the only way to really find out is when the thieves finally meet a police force that isn’t following a white glove procedure and really extract every bit of information from them, especially as far as identifying victims goes.

I simply don’t believe that they pick these bags randomly. Every time we hear of such a case, it says the victim had substantial valuables such as luxury watches, jewelry, or huge amounts of cash in the bag. Unless these scammers have X-ray vision, my primary question would be how they know who to target.

Conclusion

Another Chinese national was just sentenced by the Singapore Courts to 20 months in prison after pleading guilty to stealing baggage from a passenger on a Singapore Airlines flight. The flight in question was going from Dubai to Singapore, and both the victim and the scammer were seated in Business Class.

As the court concluded, this crime was financially supported and organized by Chinese crime syndicates, which makes the entire matter even more serious. I wonder how many of these flights it takes and how much the financial expenditure is before these criminals manage to steal something of value without being caught!?

This is a highly sophisticated, organized crime operation, so I wouldn’t put it beside them to also have informants at luxury hotels (maybe also Chinese nationals employed there) who then tip off a second group – the thieves – who try to steal the items in flight. Obviously, the risk of theft in a country like Dubai is way too high.