Title: How You Can Tell That Kamala Harris' Rally Crowds Aren't AI-Generated
Source: Wired
URL: https://www.wired.com/story/kamala-harris-rally-crowds-ai-trump-conspiracy/
--------------------------------------------------

‘The Damage Is Massive’: How the Justice Department Dismantled Its Voting Rights Section

There were around 30 attorneys in the DOJ’s Voting Section on the day of Donald Trump’s second inauguration. Three months later, all but two were gone. Now the election deniers are in control.

Trump Pivots on AI Regulation, Worker Ousted by DOGE Runs for Office, and Hantavirus Explained

Today on Uncanny Valley, we’re diving into recent reports that the Trump administration is considering an executive order that would establish some sort of federal oversight over new AI models.

Musk v. Altman Kicks Off, DOJ Guts Voting Rights Unit, and Is the AI Job Apocalypse Overhyped?

In this episode of Uncanny Valley, we get into how the Elon Musk-Sam Altman trial goes way beyond their rivalry and could have major implications both for OpenAI and also the AI industry at large.

Palantir Employees Are Starting to Wonder if They’re the Bad Guys

Interviews with current and former Palantir employees, along with internal Slack messages obtained by WIRED, suggest a workforce in turmoil.

Election Officials Are Getting Ready for ICE to Show Up at the Polls

The Trump administration keeps threatening to send federal agents to oversee elections. State and local officials are preparing, and even gaming out what happens if they're arrested.

A Conspiracy Theory About QR Codes Has Led to Chaos Ahead of Georgia's Midterms

The state of Georgia banned the use of QR codes for elections, based in part on the assertions of a man who’s boosted false claims about Israel and 9/11. Now no one knows how ballots will be counted.

It’s Officially Election Season in Trumpworld

With Trump nemesis Thomas Massie vanquished, Republican strategists are now eyeing races in Texas, California, and Maine.

An Engineer’s Post Protesting Laptop Surveillance Is Going Viral Inside Meta

Meta employees in the US and UK are organizing against corporate software that tracks workers’ keystrokes and mouse activity.

US Special Forces Soldier Arrested for Polymarket Bets on Maduro Raid

The master sergeant allegedly used classified intel to profit on the capture of Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro, marking the first US arrest for insider trading on a prediction market.

Trump's Inner Circle Is Already Scrambling Over the 2028 Presidential Ticket

Republicans still have the midterms to get through, but administration officials have already set their sights on the next election.

He Couldn’t Land a Job Interview. Was AI to Blame?

Armed with some Python and a white-hot sense of injustice, one medical student spent six months trying to figure out whether an algorithm trashed his job application.