Title: South Korea travel guide: Key apps, customs and money tips for first-timers
Source: New Zealand Herald
URL: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/travel/south-korea-travel-guide-key-apps-customs-and-money-tips-for-firsttimers/R74YEWE4TVAONGBTRCLN2A62R4/
--------------------------------------------------

Smartphone apps can sometimes overcomplicate travel, but in South Korea, certain apps make getting around far easier. If you’re travelling through Seoul, the best app to use is City Mapper. This British transit app outlines transportation details, including the fastest routes, train line names, platform numbers and departure times.

The app works best when navigating Seoul’s intricate subway and bus systems. However, City Mapper is only usable in select cities, Seoul being one of them.

For cities that don’t have City Mapper, Naver Maps is also great to download. Naver Maps provides detailed routes and public transportation options. Compared to City Mapper, it is better for tracking walking routes.

Although most signs and menus have English translations, it’s handy to have the translation app Papago downloaded. You’ll find options to type text, use your phone’s microphone for real-time translation or take photos of Korean text to then translate into English.

If you’re anything like me, you travel to eat. But securing a spot at a Michelin-starred restaurant can take months of planning, a budget of dreams or sheer luck. But dining at a Michelin restaurant doesn’t have to be an organisational nightmare or expensive affair.

As well as Michelin-starred restaurants, the Michelin Guide also lists recommended spots that are more accessible and arguably just as good. Search the Michelin website to find recommended restaurants categorised by cuisine, location, and price range.

Some must-visit ones in South Korea include:

It’s time to put your student hat on, because knowing the language and etiquette goes a long way to demonstrating respect and humility in South Korea.

Don’t fret, you don’t need to be fluent. Simply start by mastering gamsahamnida (thank you), ne (yes), and aniyo (no).

Culturally, the country highly values elders, which can look like giving them your seat on public transport, serving them food or drinks first or bowing slightly when you meet. Further details on the country’s etiquette can easily be found online and include practices like being quiet in public places, receiving/giving objects with two hands or always standing on the right side of an escalator.

Many locals may forgive tourists for faux pas, but having a basic understanding of customs will help you make a good impression and bridge cultural differences.

Much like Wellington’s Snapper card or Auckland’s Hop card, a T-Money card is South Korea’s ticket to everywhere. Whether you’re catching a bus to the other side of town or getting on Seoul’s many subway lines, a T-Money card is the easiest way to travel freely. Say goodbye to the days of waiting in queues at ticket kiosks to purchase individual tickets. Using a T-Money card gives you a small discount and means you can go along with the foot traffic flow without any hiccups.

Purchase a T-Money card at any convenience store or kiosk near selected train stations. You can purchase yours at the convenience stores found in Seoul’s Incheon Airport. Expect to pay at least $4 for the T-Money card itself.

Depending on which area you’re travelling in, bus rides can have flat rates while train rides can be as cheap as $1.50. You can top up your T-Money card at kiosks across transport centres and stations.

If you’ve got the time and the budget, take a trip outside Seoul. Escaping the capital for a day trip or weekend getaway is a great way to see what South Korea has to offer. Visiting port city Busan, “Textile City” Daegu or heritage city Jeonju-si is easily accessible on a high-speed train.

Purchase a train ticket online at the Korail website. You can select your seats, dates, departure and arrival location. Ticket prices and journey times can vary, depending on the kind of train you select. The KTX train is a high-speed train with limited stops. The Mugunghwa line trains have frequent stops and are slower. For two people, one-way tickets from Seoul to Busan on a KTX train can cost roughly $145 to $150.

Travelling on a public holiday can be troublesome, no matter where you are. However, it can also give you a different perspective on the city. I happened to book my trip at the start of the biggest national holiday, Chuseok, often referred to as South Korea’s Thanksgiving.

In Seoul, most restaurants and cafes were closed on the morning of Chuseok. But by night, the city came to life as restaurants opened their doors for dinner service. The streets were bustling, and there were often street festivals and markets celebrating the occasion.

On the week of Chuseok, many popular attractions in Seoul have free admission, from Gyeongbokgung Palace to the National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art. It’s a good way to see the city without breaking the bank.