Title: “Prank” Turns Criminal: Singapore Airlines Passenger Jailed for Exposing Himself Mid-Flight
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/prank-turns-criminal-singapore-airlines-passenger-jailed-for-exposing-himself-mid-flight/
--------------------------------------------------

1K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

An Indonesian man was sentenced to three weeks in jail after being found guilty of exposing himself to a flight attendant on a Singapore Airlines Flight. The 23-year-old passenger was traveling to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) on January 23rd when the incident occurred.

Brilliant Angjaya was returning home from a five-month study abroad program in China. His attorney claims that his client was in a “troubled state” and drank two glasses of champagne to “try to knock out” and sleep on the flight. Instead of going to sleep, the Business Class passenger decided to play a “prank” on the flight attendant. He undid his pants, exposed his genitals, and then covered himself with a blanket. When the flight attendant brought Angjaya his meal, he removed the blanket and flashed the flight attendant. She put down the tray, but noticed that his phone was recording. She reported the incident to the purser. The purser questioned the passenger who initially denied it, but then turned over his phone and confessed.

According to The Strait Times, police met the aircraft upon its landing at Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) and arrested Angjaya. Prosecutors sought six weeks jail time, but a judge sentenced him to three. Angjaya read this statement in court:

What I did was very stupid. But I believe you deserve an explanation why I did what I did. You do not deserve the distress and complications I caused you… I hope it gives you at least some comfort knowing that I will face justice for my action.”

Judge Quan countered in his ruling:

Had he been truly remorseful, he would not have lied to the victim’s supervisor when asked if he was recording. He would have come clean from the onset.”

Prosecutors argued that because this was on an aircraft, the close proximity made the situation worse. Aircraft or not, it was a stupid idea and this young man has hopefully learned a lesson (one that might haunt him his entire life).

Anthony’s Take: The flight attendant did not deserve this sexual harassment and it was a stupid decision even if alcohol was involved. Hopefully, Angjaya truly learned his lesson.

(Image Credits: Troy Mortier via Unsplash and Kevin Chng for The Strait Times.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.