Title: Singapore scrambles fighter jets after bomb threat on Air India Express flight
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/air-india-express-bomb-threat-singapore-scrambles-fighter-jets-changi-airport-4680186
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: The Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) scrambled F-15SG jets on Tuesday night (Oct 15) after a bomb threat on an Air India Express flight.

The airline had received an email that there was a bomb on board flight AXB684 that was bound for Singapore, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen said in a Facebook post.

Two F-15SG jets escorted the plane away from populated areas and it touched down at Changi Airport at around 10.04pm, more than an hour after it was due to land.

"Our Ground Based Air Defence systems and Explosive Ordnance Disposal team were also activated. Once on the ground, the plane was handed to the Airport Police," Dr Ng said, adding that investigations are ongoing.

"Many thanks to the dedication and professionalism of our Singapore Armed Forces and Home Team that keep us safe in our homes, even when threats exist around us."

In response to a query from CNA, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) said it was alerted to the bomb threat at about 8.25pm.

"The plane landed safely at Changi Airport at about 10.04pm, under the escort of RSAF fighter aircraft," SPF said.

"The police completed security checks thereafter. No threat items were found."

"The police take security threats seriously and will not hesitate to take action against those who intentionally cause public alarm," SPF added.

One Air India flight from New Delhi to Chicago was forced to make an emergency landing at Iqaluit Airport in Canada after a "security threat" was posted online, the airline said.

The aircraft and passengers were "rescreened as per the laid down security protocol".

“Air India notes that it, and other local airlines, have been subject to a number of threats in recent days," it added.

Similar hoaxes were received by India's low-cost airline IndiGo for two flights from Mumbai on Monday – one to Jeddah in Saudi Arabia and another to Muscat in Oman, according to media outlets in India.

NDTV reported that a SpiceJet flight SG116 from Darbhanga to Mumbai and an Akasa Air flight QP1373 from Bagdogra to Bengaluru also received bomb threats on Tuesday.