Title: IndiGo 'forgets' to offload baggage, B'luru-bound flight returns to Singapore
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/bengaluru/indigo-forgets-to-offload-baggage-bluru-bound-flight-returns-to-singapore/articleshow/104541400.cms
--------------------------------------------------

IndiGo, the largest domestic airline in India, experienced another mishap when it failed to offload all the baggage from an international flight. The flight had to return to Changi airport after takeoff as the luggage had not been offloaded. The airline admitted the error and apologized to passengers. However, passengers expressed their frustration and criticized the airline for the mismanagement. IndiGo operates nearly 2,000 flights daily and is the busiest airline in India.

Representative image.

NEW DELHI: After "forgetting" to put an elderly couple on their connecting flight to India at Istanbul airport a few weeks ago, IndiGo suffered another memory lapse on Wednesday when it failed to fully offload the baggage from an international flight.

Soon after take-off, the Bengaluru-bound flight had to return to Changi airport , since all the luggage on the aircraft when it flew to Singapore had not been offloaded before departure.

Flight tracking websites showed that the IndiGo flight, 6E-1006, had taken off from the Changi airport at 5.35 am (local time) Wednesday and landed back there at 6.57 am. The Airbus A321neo then departed at 10.12 am and reached Bengaluru four hours later, at 11.44 am (India time). Admitting the goof-up, IndiGo in a statement said: "We acknowledge the baggage error on part of our service partners at Singapore airport with respect to flight 6E 1006 operating from Singapore to Bengaluru, due to which the flight returned to origin. The passengers were kept informed of the delay and served refreshments. We sincerely regret the inconvenience caused to the passengers."

The passengers were, however, miffed at being made to suffer due to the airline's slip-up. Anjlin Sahni said on X (earlier Twitter) : "Horrible mismanagement at Singapore airport! 6E 1006 was in the air for 1.5 hours (Singapore-Bengaluru). Landed back in Singapore because (the airline) mixed up baggages of various flights! Passengers in an early morning flight, already sleep deprived, are being harassed." IndiGo, the largest domestic airline of India, operates close to 2,000 flights daily and on a standalone basis, flies the maximum number of people in and out of the country.

End of Article

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA