Title: Exclusive: Swiss startup picks Rotterdam for green aviation fuel plant
Source: The Next Web
URL: https://thenextweb.com/news/metafuels-swiss-startup-rotterdam-green-aviation-fuel-plant
--------------------------------------------------

Swiss tech startup Metafuels has unveiled plans to open its first commercial-scale sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) plant in the Port of Rotterdam.

Metafuels’ CEO Saurabh Kapoor told TNW that Turbe represents a “major step forward” toward ramping up SAF production. The startup also announced plans to build a similar facility in Denmark last year.

“Europe has ambitious decarbonisation targets, but without scalable and affordable SAF production, aviation will struggle to keep up,” said Kapoor.

The facility, dubbed Turbe, will be built in collaboration with liquid energy storage provider Evos. Turbe will be integrated into Evos’ existing Rotterdam terminal, which offers access to the infrastructure needed to store green methanol in large quantities.

Metafuels’ “aerobrew” technology converts renewable methanol into jet fuel, using a process it claims delivers high energy efficiency and up to 90% lower life cycle emissions than conventional jet fuel. The resulting SAF is “drop-in ready,” requiring no changes to aircraft or airport infrastructure.

Turbe will be able to process both bio-methanol — sourced from biological waste — and e-methanol, which is made using renewable electricity and captured CO2. This flexibility allows Metafuels to respond to shifts in feedstock availability and regulatory demand, the company said.

Kapoor said he expects both the Netherlands and Denmark plants to start producing fuel for use in commercial aircraft from 2028. However, before that happens, the company will need to obtain accreditation for its aerobrew process, which it expects to get by the end of this year.

Metafuels says the new site will produce 12,000 litres of SAF per day during its first phase, with ambitions to scale that tenfold in the second phase. For reference, a Boeing 737 Max has a fuel tank capacity of around 26,000 litres, which equates to a range of around 6,570 km.

Metafuels and the broader aviation industry still has a long way to go to meet global and regional targets for SAF adoption.

SAF made up only 0.53% of global aircraft fuel use in 2024. The EU wants to ramp that up to 70% by 2050, which will require a drastic increase in the production of the greener fuel.