Title: Airport That 'Looks Like Something in the Future' Stuns Internet
Source: Newsweek
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/worlds-best-airport-singapore-changi-jewel-forest-waterfall-viral-tiktok-1839250
--------------------------------------------------

A video of one of the most mesmerizing airports in the world has gone viral on TikTok.

The clip was posted by Kita Tozer (@kitatozer) and has had 4.3 million views since it was first shared in early September. The video features scenes from Singapore's Changi Airport.

Tozer told Newsweek that the footage was captured during a 12-hour stopover she had at the airport while traveling from Milan, Italy, to New Zealand.

The video begins with an image of what looks to be an elevated tramway car traveling across a jungle forest-type setting. The clip later highlights another area with plant-themed decorations before showing an imposing waterfall surrounded by lush greenery.

The post comes as air travel continues to see strong growth in the post-COVID-19 pandemic era. Globally, air traffic in May was reported to be at 96.1 percent of May 2019 (pre-pandemic) levels, the International Air Transport Association reported in July.

Changi was named this year's Airport of the Year in the annual World Airport Awards by Skytrax, based on customer surveys of over 550 airports across the globe.

Having won the title around a dozen times since 2000, Changi Airport is "renowned for its passenger experiences," according to the airport's website.

As one of the busiest airport hubs in Southeast Asia, passenger traffic at Changi is projected to rise by 3 to 4 percent every year for the next 20 years. "At this rate, current airport capacity will be reached by the late 2020s," the airport notes.

'So Surreal'

The scenes captured in the latest viral clip show Changi Airport's Jewel complex, which features a host of facilities and attractions, including a forest valley with a spectacular waterfall.

Known as the "rain vortex," it's said to be the world's tallest indoor waterfall, according to the airport's website, cascading down seven stories from a glass and steel domed ceiling.

The forest valley is home to around 900 trees and palms and around 60,000 shrubs, according to the airport's website. Passengers can take a walk up to Canopy Park, the Jewel's highest level, from where they can take in far-reaching views across the valley, the website notes.

Tozer told Newsweek that her favorite aspect of the airport is the Jewel complex and that she loves the selection of shopping venues available inside the airport.

She also recalled seeing "a musical/play playing every 10 minutes, which I could see from the lounge I was in" at one of the airport's terminals on another trip while traveling from Singapore to Melbourne, Australia.

Several TikTokers were blown away by the airport in the latest viral clip.

User @_.idontknowwhattoput___ asked: "THATS AN AIRPORT?"

User @theyluvv.journey18 also noted: "Wait this was actually a real airport."

Satoru's wifeyyy wrote: "Looks like something in the future."

User @deenwithrejhana said: "when i went it was so surreal bro."

User ame said "it's like a dream" and zee wrote "this is truly gorgeous."

User veera noted: "i'd go there [just] for the airport."

User sharon said "favorite airport experience ever," and I love nightwing agreed, noting "I was there it's the best airport everrrrrrr."

Newsweek has contacted the original poster for comment via TikTok and email. This video has not been independently verified.