Title: Here’s Every Country Directly Impacted by the War on Iran
Source: Wired
URL: https://www.wired.com/story/every-country-directly-impacted-by-the-war-on-iran/
--------------------------------------------------

On February 28, United States and Israeli forces launched a series of strikes on Iran, kicking off turmoil in the Middle East.

Pete Hegseth, the secretary of the Department of Defense, said in a recent press conference that the operation could last as long as eight weeks. President Donald Trump himself said in a press conference on March 2 that the administration projected the operation would last four or five weeks but had “the capability to go far longer than that.”

This week Iran has responded in turn, attacking Israel, regional US embassies and military bases, and other sites across the Middle East. Iran has peppered neighboring countries with hundreds of drone and ballistic missile strikes since the operation began. While many of these have been intercepted, there have been casualties in the region and multiple buildings have been damaged, including luxury hotels in Dubai, US military bases and embassies, and international airports and marine ports.

Israel has also started bombarding Lebanon, following strikes at the country by the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah.

The Trump administration has given various, and at times seemingly contradictory, justifications for the military action, citing everything from potential “nuclear threat” to unverified claims that Iran attempted to interfere in the 2020 and 2024 US presidential elections. As of March 5, Congress, which in the US has the sole power to declare war, has not done so.

The attacks have already disrupted supply chains, creating uncertainty for the oil and gas and fertilizer industries as key infrastructure has been targeted or shut down out of caution. Shipping traffic has halted along the Strait of Hormuz, a critical route.

As the conflict continues to escalate and expand, WIRED is tracking which countries have been affected and how. This article was last updated on March 5.

Iran

As of March 4, Iranian state media estimates that over 1,000 people have died in the country since the US-Israeli attacks began. Several schools and hospitals have been hit, according to Al Jazeera. The Israeli Air Force says it has struck Iran with over 5,000 munitions since the beginning of the operation.

Israel

Israel has faced retaliatory strikes from Iran. As of March 4, at least 11 people have died and over 40 buildings have been damaged in Tel Aviv, according to Al Jazeera.

Azerbaijan

On March 5, Azerbaijan said drone attacks launched from Iran had crossed over the country’s borders and damaged an airport building and injured two civilians. President Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan said that the country’s military forces “have been instructed to prepare and implement appropriate retaliatory measures,” according to Reuters. Iran has denied responsibility for the attacks, according to Al Jazeera.

Bahrain

Missile and drone strikes have targeted different locations in Bahrain, including a US naval base, according to the BBC. On March 2, Amazon reported that a drone strike occurred in close proximity to one of its data centers in the country. CNBC later reported that Iranian state media said that Iran had targeted the data center because of the company’s support of the US military.

Cyprus

On March 2, a drone strike hit a British air base in Cyprus, according to Reuters. It caused limited damage and no casualties. Greece, the UK, and France have lent defensive support to the country, according to a Bloomberg report.

Iraq

Since February 28, there have been reports of multiple Iranian strikes aimed at a US military base near the Erbil International Airport, according to the nonprofit monitoring group Armed Conflict Location and Event Data.

Jordan

Jordan’s armed forces have intercepted dozens of missiles since the start of the conflict. At least one Iranian-backed militant group in Iraq has claimed responsibility, according to the Associated Press. On March 2, the US embassy in the country announced that all its personnel had temporarily departed.

Kuwait

Kuwait has endured multiple waves of Iranian missile and drone attacks since February 28. On March 2, US Central Command said in a statement that three US fighter jets were accidentally struck down by Kuwaiti air defenses during an attack that included Iranian aircraft, missiles, and drones.

Lebanon

Israel attacked southern Lebanon after the militant Lebanese group Hezbollah launched rocket and drone attacks against it. Lebanon prime minister Nawaf Salam subsequently banned Hezbollah’s military and security activities, according to Al Jazeera.

Oman

Oman’s Duqm commercial port has been hit by several drone attacks, according to Al Jazeera. Omani authorities have said at least one oil tanker off the country’s port of Khasab in the Strait of Hormuz has been attacked.

Qatar

On March 2, QatarEnergy posted on X saying that it would halt production of liquified natural gas following a military attack on its operational facilities in the country. It did not attribute the attack to any particular country. On March 3, it posted again, saying that it would also stop the production of additional products, including urea, polymers, methanol, and aluminum.

Saudi Arabia

Infrastructure in Saudi Arabia has been targeted with projectiles. On March 3, the US embassy in Riyadh, the country’s capital, was damaged following an attack. On March 4, Reuters reported that one of the largest domestic refineries of Saudi Aramco, the majority-state-owned oil company, was targeted by an attempted drone attack.

Syria

Tom Fletcher, the United Nations undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs and emergency relief, says that civilians and civilian infrastructure were under attack in several countries including Syria.

Turkey

On March 4, the Turkish Ministry of National Defense announced that NATO had intercepted ballistic munitions launched from Iran, and that munition fragments had fallen into Hatay, a province that borders the Mediterranean Sea and Syria. Iran has denied any missile launch towards the country.

United Arab Emirates

As of March 4, UAE Ministry of Defense officials say that the country has intercepted hundreds of drone and missile attacks from Iran. Despite the relatively high rate of interceptions, debris created by the fallout has still damaged areas of the country. In Dubai, the luxury hotel Burj Al Arab was struck by debris, as well as the Palm Jumeirah, a man-made island home to high-end hotels and apartments. On March 2, Amazon Web Services announced that two of its facilities in the country were directly struck, causing “elevated error rates and degraded availability.”

Countries Evacuating Citizens

On March 2, US assistant secretary of state for consular affairs Mora Namdar posted on X urging Americans to depart from several Middle Eastern countries due to “serious safety risks.” On March 4, Reuters reported that the US military has offered seats on military transport planes to Americans trying to leave the region.