Title: Energy ministry accentuates importance of expediting SAF development
Source: Antaranews.com
URL: https://en.antaranews.com/news/317691/energy-ministry-accentuates-importance-of-expediting-saf-development
--------------------------------------------------

Garuda Indonesia aircraft making the first flight using Pertamina SAF from Soekarno-Hatta Airport to Adi Soemarmo Airport. ANTARA/Farhan Arda Nugraha
							
						              
					Jakarta (ANTARA) - The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources highlighted the need to accelerate the development of sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) in the country, given their potential.

"The roadmap for SAF for aircraft has been issued by the Coordinating Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Investment, and we are giving inputs," the ministry's Director General of New Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation, Eniya Listiani Dewi, stated here on Thursday.

Dewi affirmed that airfares for trips from Singapore to Indonesia are projected to increase following the use of SAF for aircraft at the Singapore Changi Airport.

"The return tickets for our aircraft coming to Singapore Changi Airport will be much more expensive because they require one percent SAF, and the SAF price is charged to the passenger tickets," she explained.

Dewi believes this can be a business opportunity for Indonesia to prepare SAF.

"I think Pertamina (state-run oil and gas company) has prepared it because we want to push palm-based biofuel. Hopefully, it can accelerate our investment in the field of new renewable energy," she remarked.

Related news: Pertamina prepares to distribute sustainable aviation fuel

The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources has called on Pertamina to accelerate efforts for developing SAF. The state-run company has also established collaborations with Airbus and Boeing.

On October 27, 2023, Pertamina and flag carrier Garuda Indonesia carried out the first commercial flight using SAF on the Soekarno-Hatta Airport–Adi Soemarmo Airport route.

Pertamina's SAF development journey was started in 2010 through its Research, Technology, and Innovation function by conducting product and catalyst development research.

In 2021, Pertamina's refining and petrochemical subholding PT Kilang Pertamina Internasional produced J2.4 SAF at the IV Cilacap Refinery Unit.

The SAF was developed with a co-processing technology using refined bleached deodorized palm kernel oil (RBDPKO) with a capacity of 1,350 kiloliters per day.

Related news: Indonesian govt targets Rp12 trillion profit from SAF sales, exportsTranslator: Aji Cakti, Raka AdjiEditor: Yuni Arisandy Sinaga					Copyright © ANTARA 2024