Title: New Michelin-Starred Menus Are Debuting In Air France’s La Première Cabin This Winter
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/new-michelin-starred-menus-are-debuting-in-air-frances-la-premiere-cabin-this-winter/
--------------------------------------------------

1.3K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Air France’s La Première (First Class) is renowned for its cuisine and overall experience. The airline is renewing its partnership with Emmanuel Renaut, triple Michelin-starred chef and Meilleur Ouvrier de France.

The menus will be created with seasonal produce, vegetarian products, meat of French origin, and fish sourced from sustainable fisheries. Chef Renaut loves Savoyard cuisine and is looking to share his mountain-inspired cuisine combining local produce with French culinary heritage.

Beaufort PDO soufflé, cream of mushroom with truffles, and foie gras with salsify, blueberry, and onion chutney are some of the new starters. Eight new dishes celebrating French cuisine, especially Savoyard cuisine, will be featured in the coming months. Polenta with wild mushrooms, spinach and mountain cheese, scallops quenelle, tangy cream sauce, and root vegetables are among the new options on board.

Air France is entrusting its dessert menu to Claire Heitzler, Gault & Millau’s elected pastry chef of the year 2013. The chef places special emphasis on French, seasonal products to offer La Première guests a sweet taste of France including a triple chocolate cloud, a dessert of crunchy chocolate shortbread and creamy dark chocolate, and the Castanéa, a dessert with Ardèche chestnuts and Corsican clementines.

These menus are exclusive to Air France’s La Première cabin. The airline operates this cabin on the following routes from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG):

Félix-Houphouët-Boigny International Airport (ABJ)

Dubai International Airport (DXB)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

Miami International Airport (MIA)

New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO)

São Paulo/Guarulhos-Governor André Franco Montoro International Airport (GRU)

Singapore Changi Airport (SIN)

Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND)

Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD)

Anthony’s Take: The new menu sounds delicious and I love that Air France is bringing in a Michelin-starred chef to create it. I’ve never flown La Première, but it’s on my list.

(Image Credits: Air France.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.