Title: How Dangerous is Flight Turbulence?
Source: Newsweek
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/how-dangerous-flight-turbulence-1902973
--------------------------------------------------

Concerns are sure to be raised about the dangers of airplane turbulence after a person died aboard a flight that encountered severe turbulence on Tuesday.

One person died and others were injured after Singapore Airlines' flight SQ321 from London to Singapore encountered severe turbulence, the airline said on its Facebook page.

The flight was diverted to Bangkok and landed at 3:45 p.m. local time, the airline said. The aircraft was a Boeing 777-300ER with 211 passengers and 18 crew on board.

Read More on World

"Singapore Airlines offers its deepest condolences to the family of the deceased," the airline said. "Our priority is to provide all possible assistance to all passengers and crew onboard the aircraft. We are working with the local authorities in Thailand to provide the necessary medical assistance, and sending a team to Bangkok to provide any additional assistance needed.

What Causes Turbulence?

Turbulence is "an irregular motion of the air resulting from eddies and vertical currents," according to the National Weather Service.

The turbulence could be no more than a few bumps or extreme enough to cause structural damage or temporarily throw a plane out of control.

Turbulence can be caused by storms, mountains, and strong air currents called jet streams, Paul Williams, a professor of atmospheric science at the University of Reading in England, told Newsweek.

"In this last case, it is called clear-air turbulence, and it can be difficult to avoid because it doesn't show up on the weather radar in the flight deck. A detailed analysis of the meteorological circumstances and the particular type of turbulence that caused today's fatality will take some time."

Researchers say climate change is expected to make turbulence worse in the coming decades.

"We now have strong evidence that turbulence is increasing because of climate change. We recently discovered that severe clear-air turbulence in the North Atlantic has increased by 55% since 1979," Williams said.

"Our latest future projections indicate a doubling or trebling of severe turbulence in the jet streams in the coming decades, if the climate continues to change as we expect."

How Often Are People Injured or Killed by Turbulence?

Fatalities due to turbulence on commercial flights are "fortunately very rare," Williams said.

He said the last fatality due to clear-air turbulence was aboard a United Airlines flight from Tokyo to Honolulu in December 1997. "Other forms of turbulence have caused more recent fatalities, but as far as I am aware there has not been a turbulence fatality on a commercial flight since 2009," Williams said.

Turbulence-related injuries are the most common type of accident on passenger planes, accounting for more than a third of incidents between 2009 through 2018, according to a 2021 study by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB).

There have been 163 serious injuries due to turbulence-related accidents between 2009 and 2022, according to data from the NTSB. Flight attendants were most commonly hurt, accounting for almost 80 percent of those who were seriously injured.

The NTSB study found that most of the passengers and flight attendants injured during turbulence were not wearing a seat belt at the time.

What Can Passengers Do To Stay Safe?

The Federal Aviation Administration advises passengers to keep their seat belt buckled at all times to prevent injuries from unexpected turbulence.

They are also urged to listen to pilots and flight attendants, keep seat belts fastened when the seat belt sign is illuminated during flights, pay attention to the safety briefing at the start of the flight and read safety briefing cards.