Title: Upcoming Hotel Indigo Changi Airport to offer indoor ‘rainforest’ and control tower views
Source: The Straits Times
URL: https://www.straitstimes.com/business/upcoming-hotel-indigo-changi-airport-to-offer-indoor-rainforest-and-control-tower-views
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE – Hotel Indigo Changi Airport, set to stand beside Terminal 2, will offer a “distinctive local experience” and incorporate sustainable elements into its design, said property developer OUE.

The Hotel Indigo Changi Airport will celebrate the spirit of Changi, said OUE at the May 29 groundbreaking ceremony of the hotel it is developing under a joint venture with Japanese non-banking financial services company Tokyo Century.

The 255-room hotel, scheduled to be ready and fully operational by 2028, will also be Singapore’s first hotel to attain “zero-energy” certification level under the Green Mark Scheme of the Singapore Building and Construction Authority (BCA), the group said.

Under the scheme, zero-energy buildings are those that consume energy entirely from renewable energy sources.

The top floor of Hotel Indigo Changi Airport, level eight, will feature an infinity pool, a gym and a bar that offers panoramic views of the airport, OUE said.

An indoor rainforest in the hotel will blend urban architecture with seven storeys of lush greenery.

Upon arrival at the Floating Forest, hotel guests will be greeted by a foliage-enveloped lobby furnished with lanterns and a water-covered skylight with views of hanging plants.

The glass and timber lifts that bring guests to their rooms will take them up through the “forest” on an immersive journey with nature.

Locally inspired features

Hotel Indigo Changi Airport will pay homage to Changi Airport’s ongoing evolution as a gateway to the world by drawing inspiration from its past, present and future, OUE said.

Locally inspired design and curated artwork will be incorporated into the hotel’s public spaces and guest rooms, it said.

The hotel has direct access to Terminal 2.

It will provide views of key airport landmarks, including the tree-lined Airport Boulevard that leads up to the iconic control tower, Crowne Plaza Changi Airport and Jewel Changi Airport.

Beyond incorporating nature in its design, the hotel will deploy sustainability initiatives to minimise environmental impact while ensuring guests’ comfort and well-being, OUE said. These include green building strategies, smart energy management systems and eco-friendly technologies.

Notably, there are plans to install photovoltaic solar panels on the hotel’s rooftop and its adjacent coach stand, as well as on selected facades, OUE said. These solar panels will harness renewable energy to minimise the facility’s carbon footprint and achieve zero-energy operations.