Title: This NYC airport hotel was just ranked the number three in the world
Source: Time Out
URL: https://www.timeout.com/newyork/news/this-nyc-airport-hotel-was-just-ranked-the-number-three-in-the-world-041125
--------------------------------------------------

The glamorous TWA Hotel in New York has just earned a pretty awesome accolade: third best airport hotel in the world, according to Skytrax's annual World's Best Airport Hotels survey, which you can read in full right here.

The company's global airport customer satisfaction survey is the largest study of its kind and has been regarded as a benchmark for the industry. And for good reason. Guests are asked to assess everything from the overall experience of the hotel and the level of service to in-room and on-premise amenities, airport access, cleanliness, food quality and value for money. They’re also asked to rate what may be the most important factor of an airport hotel stay: sleep quality. (We’re so here for this.)

That is all to say: TWA Hotel is clearly deserving of all the praise!

Coming in at number one on the 2025 list is the Crowne Plaza Changi Airport in Singapore (which is no surprise: it is the 13th time the destination has topped the ranking), followed by the Hyatt Regency Shenzhen Airport in Shenzhen at number two.

Only one other U.S. airport hotel made it to the top ten global ranking: the Westin Denver International Airport at number ten.

It's also worth noting that, on the U.S. top ten list, TWA came in first.

A nod back to retro days of yore, the formerly abandoned Eero Saarinen’s landmark TWA Flight Center reopened with much excitement and grandeur in 2019. The property itself, which can be accessed from JetBlue’s Terminal 5, features 512 guest rooms that are a page torn out of old Hollywood, bedecked with midcentury-modern furniture and motifs, and walnut martini bars. As for sleep quality, runway sounds are kept quiet due to a seven-pane, 4.5-inch-thick glass curtain wall by Fabbrica.

On premise, guests will find The Sunken Lounge, the hotel’s common space that was restored to its original 1962 design, The Paris Café by Jean-Geroges Vongerichten; and a food hall for more casual dining. There are also a ton of meeting and event spaces, a 10,000-square-foot fitness center, a “Twister Room” to relive your childhood glory days and a rooftop infinity pool and observation deck perfect for airport runway watching. Fun fact: the New York Historical Society hosts exhibits on site as well!

As if all those plush details weren’t enough, outside you’ll find a restored Lockheed Constellation L-1649A plane that was plucked from the 1950s and refurbished into a cocktail lounge.

What better way to enjoy an overnight layover?