Title: Blackpink Singer Jennie Steals Jung Kook’s Hot 100 All-Time Record
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2024/05/16/blackpink-singer-jennie-steals-jung-kooks-hot-100-all-time-record/
--------------------------------------------------

Blackpink singer Jennie has been slowly working her way toward a historic milestone on the Hot 100 for months now with her biggest solo hit. Now, this frame, the superstar’s tune finally reaches a magical number, and in doing so, she earns another spot in the chart records.

“One of the Girls” has now spent 20 weeks somewhere on the Hot 100. As of this frame, the tune stands as the longest-charting hit of all time among solo musicians from South Korea on Billboard’s ranking of the most-consumed songs in the U.S.

Jennie’s track, which is fronted by The Weeknd and which also credits Lily Rose Depp as a featured act, breaks its tie with one other track for this bit of history. Last frame, “One of the Girls” was matched with “Standing Next to You” by Jung Kook, who may be best known as one of the seven members of BTS. That cut managed 19 frames on the Hot 100 during its successful run.

Now, “Standing Next to You” has been replaces as the longest-running Hot 100 hit ever by a solo artist from South Korea. Jung Kook’s top 10 smash now stands as the second-longest-charting song in the tally’s half-century-long tenure as he cedes this honor to Jennie.

After a months-long rise on the Hot 100, “One of the Girls” is finally working its way down on the tally. Based on its current position, and how it’s been performing for the past several frames, it looks like the track will disappear from the chart very soon, so it’s a good thing that the title reached this milestone when it did.

This frame, “One of the Girls” slips from No. 90 to No. 97. The track only has a few more spaces to fall before it disappears from the Hot 100, which seems imminent. The tune only rose as high as No. 51, which is a fairly low position for a title that went on to spend months on the ranking.

“One of the Girls” was released as a single from one of the EPs connected to The Weeknd’s TV series The Idol. He co-wrote and co-produced the tune, along with several others, for his first show, which was met with mixed reviews after it aired on HBO. While the program was not renewed for a second season, some of the cuts, including Jennie’s, became important Hot 100 wins.

As “One of the Girls” falls on the Hot 100, it’s also declining on several other Billboard tallies. This week, the single slips from No. 21 to No. 25 on the Pop Airplay tally. It also steps back on the R&B Streaming Songs chart, downsizing from No. 8 to No. 13.