Title: J’den: A nature-inspired abode that takes integrated living to the next level
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/advertorial/jden-nature-inspired-abode-takes-integrated-living-next-level-3866611
--------------------------------------------------

Few regions in Singapore are experiencing a transformation like Jurong Lake District, slated to become the largest commercial district outside the city centre. In line with the Government’s plan to transform the precinct into a model of urban planning for a climate-conscious era, the forthcoming years will usher in a wave of new developments, transport hubs and green spaces, set against the backdrop of scenic lakes and gardens in the vicinity.

Nestled at the centre of it all is J’den by CapitaLand. This new launch is poised to be Jurong Lake District’s tallest premier mixed-use residential development, setting the benchmark for future projects in the precinct.

SEAMLESS CONNECTIVITY AND ACCESSIBILITY

Given its prime location, J’den provides exceptional accessibility to the area’s transport hubs, shopping centres and nature parks. The property’s two-storey commercial podium will house a range of retail stores and food and beverage outlets, and is connected to Westgate, IMM and Jem via J-Walk, a sheltered and elevated pedestrian walkway.

For nature enthusiasts, the serene Jurong Lake Gardens – with its grassy fields, winding walking paths and tranquil Chinese and Japanese Gardens – is just a leisurely stroll away. And upon the completion of the Cross Island Line, getting to Bukit Timah Nature Reserve, Rifle Range Nature Park and the Rail Corridor will be as easy as hopping on a direct MRT ride.

With Jurong East MRT interchange at their doorstep, residents will find it a breeze to get around Singapore. Whether commuting to major business districts or education hubs in the west and central regions, they can reach their destinations within a swift 30-minute journey.

Jurong Lake District will eventually be served by four MRT lines, providing speedy connections to the city centre, Changi Airport and Jurong Innovation District. J’den will also be linked to the future Jurong East Integrated Transport Hub, which is set to open around 2027, and will include community and civic institutions, an office tower as well as a bus interchange and library.

UPSCALE AMENITIES INSPIRED BY NATURE

Drawing inspiration from the nearby Jurong Lake Gardens, J’den’s architects and designers have masterfully woven the development into its natural surroundings. The building’s warm, welcoming facade boasts graceful lines and embraces the earthy hues of nature’s palette – with brown and grey shades that evoke the textures and colours of wood and stone.

The nature theme extends to the property’s sprawling shared spaces. Verdant foliage is interspersed with soothing water features, and recreational facilities are nestled discreetly within this oasis. Spend leisurely afternoons swimming in the 50m lap pool, relaxing in the jacuzzi or water hammocks, or drifting along the lazy river bordered by manicured lawns and tropical canopies.

Residents can also ascend to the 24th-floor Sky Terrace and take in the 360-degree panoramas. On top of the stunning views, there are comfortable work pods for work-from-home days, gardening corners to nurture your green thumb and intimate spaces for hosting sunset gatherings with your family and friends.

Other thoughtful amenities around the grounds include a well-equipped gym, barbecue facilities, children’s play areas and sun decks perfect for an outdoor yoga session. In keeping with Jurong Lake District’s sustainability ethos, ample bicycle parking lots are provided to promote a car-lite lifestyle among residents.

BESPOKE LIVING AT ITS FINEST

Built with versatility in mind, the non-prefabricated, prefinished volumetric construction development allows for flexible layouts, giving homeowners the opportunity to configure and design their dream homes to suit their lifestyle needs and preferences.

For example, those who entertain frequently can choose to expand the living area to create more space for hosting soirees. Families can merge two bedrooms into a combined bedroom and play area for little ones, while those who prefer a larger bedroom can easily widen the primary bedroom into a capacious suite, complete with a walk-in wardrobe if they so desire.

The 38-storey residential tower consists of 368 apartments that are primarily north-south facing. From cosy one-bedroom sanctuaries to spacious four-bedroom abodes, each unit is fitted with floor-to-ceiling windows that let in abundant natural light and provide sweeping vistas of the glittering pool or the picturesque Jurong Lake. For a touch of exclusivity, three- and four-bedroom premium apartments come with their own private lifts.

Besides the smart home fittings and high-quality furnishings in each apartment, homeowners will discover other innovative design elements. One- and two-bedroom units, for instance, are equipped with a concealed induction hob that frees up the worktop for flexible uses.

If you have been searching for a unique, strategically located property that offers a harmonious blend of nature and urban sophistication, your quest ends at J’den.

J’den is where it all comes together. Visit the website for more information or call 9733 8007 to make an appointment to view the show suites (located at 71 Science Park Drive, Singapore 118253).