Title: Qatar Airways is Adding Caviar Service to Business Class
Source: Atxjetsetter.com
URL: https://atxjetsetter.com/post/qatar-airways-adding-caviar-service-to-business-class/
--------------------------------------------------

Qatar Airways announced today that the carrier will begin serving caviar on select Business Class routes. The airline, which has won the Skytrax World’s Best Business Class 11 times, will introduce the service on August 15th.

Caviar will be served on flights between Qatar’s global hub at Doha’s Hamad International Airport (DOH) and the following destinations:

Boston Logan International Airport (BOS)

Dallas/Ft. Worth INternational Airport (DFW)

Hong Kong International Airport (HKG)

Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH)

London Heathrow Airport (LHR)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

Melbourne Airport (MEL)

New York John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG)

Sao Paulo-Guarulhos International Airport (GRU)

Singapore Changi Airport (SIN)

Sydney Airport (SYD)

Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD)

Qatar Airways’ Senior Vice President of Product Development and Design, Xia Cai, had this to say about the introduction of caviar service in Business Class:

“Qatar Airways takes pride in providing the best premium business class travel experience. The introduction of caviar service, commonly available only in first class cabins, further elevates Qatar Airways’ award-winning business class experience. We are committed to continuously enhance our onboard services to elevate the industry’s standards and delight our passengers.”

Xia Cai, SVP of Product Development and Design

Qatar Airways Business Class Improvements

Caviar service is the most recent improvement to Qatar’s award winning Qsuite Business Class. I had the opportunity to fly in the airline’s A350-1000 Qsuite Business Class between Houston and Doha a couple of years ago and had an amazing experience (even without the caviar).

Also, a few weeks ago at the Farnborough International Airshow, Qatar unveiled its new, next generation Qsuite which takes an already fantastic product and upgrades it with some nice, new touches. The NextGen Qsuite is expected to be introduced on the carrier’s Boeing 777X aircraft.

While the airline already had an award winning Business Class, could the two most recent changes solidify it as the best in the world? We just saw “new” Business Class seats unveiled at Emirates for its Boeing 777 fleet which were fairly underwhelming. Qatar seems to have all of the momentum as far as the Middle East 3 (ME3) are concerned at the moment and I’ll be looking for a reason to fly the new product in the future.

The upgraded flights start in just a few days and can be booked via Qatar’s website.

Summary

Qatar Airways is once again solidifying itself as one of the premier airlines in the world with the introduction of caviar service in Business Class. Starting August 15th, the carrier will introduce the service on 13 routes from its Doha hub.

(Images courtesy Qatar Airways)