Title: Review: Singapore Airlines The Private Room (SIN)
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/singapore-airlines-the-private-room-review/
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore Airlines offers two first class lounges at its hub at Singapore Changi Airport. This review highlights The Private Room, the exclusive first class lounge for Singapore Airlines first class passengers.

Singapore Airlines The Private Room Review (SIN)

Ahead of my Singapore Airlines Suites Class from Singapore to London, I spent a few minutes The Private Room. This exclusive lounge was nearly empty at 9:00 am in the morning (I think it always is), and I love how serene the space is.

I wasn’t hungry, but enjoyed some berries, fresh-squeezed orange juice, and a strong flat white…a very nice combo.

Here’s the menu:

Beyond a side table with croissants, yogurt, and cereal, all food is a la carte.

I had the bathroom all to myself…showers and sleeping rooms are also available.

My longer review from February 2024, below, is still very much on point.

I visited this lounge after stepping off my Singapore Suites flight from New York. You can read about those flights here.

Singapore refurbished this lounge during the pandemic, reopening it on May 31, 2022. I visited the old lounge many years ago and was quite excited to see what the refreshed lounge would look like.

Access + Hours + Location

The lounge is located in the complex of Singapore Airlines lounges in the center of Terminal 3 at Changi Airport. Follow the signs toward the Singapore lounges (closest to the A gates) and then take the escalator upstairs.

After stepping off the escalator, turn left toward the first class lounges (the business class lounge is on the right) and after verifying your boarding pass at the first class lounge entrance, you will be directed to take a second left to enter The Private Room (or in my case, I was escorted into the lounge).

The Private Room is open daily from 5:30 am to 2:30 am. During my last visit I was allowed to sleep there overnight, though I do not know if that is still possible.

While the next-door first class lounge allows access to all guests departing on Star Alliance flight in first class, The Private Room is reserved exclusively for first class travelers on Singapore Airlines (currently only available on 777-300ER or A380-800 jets).

If you are traveling in Singapore First, the access rules are fairly generous:

Access to The Private Room is granted either prior or after your Suites Class or first class flight

If you are connecting to another flight from Singapore First/Suites, you can use the lounge regardless of your class of service on the connecting flight, even if you are flying on another airline

If you are in transit and your flight does not depart until the next day, you can still access the lounge

Seating

At 10,000+ square feet, the lounge seats 80 people.

As you enter the lounge, you will approach a beautiful chandelier. Seating and dining are to the right, a play room to the left, and restrooms and sleeping rooms behind you. The seating is divided into smaller areas that maximize privacy with the dining room behind it.

Cubicles can accommodate around 2-4 passengers each, but are only semi-private. Within them are plenty of universal plugs.

Dining Room

My favorite part of the lounge is the dining room, which offers a la carte dining (and a very small buffet).

Breakfast – 5:30 AM – 11:00 AM

Lunch – 11:00 AM – 6:00 PM

Dinner – 6:00 PM – 2:30 AM

I was in the lounge from about 6:30 am to 8:30 am and breakfast was on offer. Here’s the full menu:

Barista-made coffee is available at a coffee bar and the Dialogue coffee (from Boncafé Singapore) is exquisite…my flat white was perfect and frankly the beans and machine here are far better than the (still respectable) coffee onboard your Singapore flight.

The entire bar area exuded understated elegance with dark marble countertops and carefully-arranged bottles of liquor.

Cereals, nuts, and muffins (adjacent to the coffee bar) were self-serve.

I as not very hungry, I ordered an omelet with fresh-squeezed orange juice. The omelet was excellent, but in retrospect, I wish I had ordered the lobster laksa.

I greatly appreciated the selection of fresh-squeezed juices and the apple juice was perfect (so was the orange juice).

For Champagne drinkers, 2008 Taittinger Comtes was on offer.

Restrooms + Showers

Restrooms are available, along with a trio of shower suites. Both the restrooms and shower suites were well-stocked with amenities like shaving kits, dental kits, combs, and Lalique body lotion.

Nap Rooms

Four nap rooms are available, two with day beds. You can use these rooms for two hours at a time on a first-come, first-served basis. Each room has a desk, while rooms 1 and 4 feature an easy chair similar to the first class seat in the A80 Suite while rooms 2 and 3 feature real beds.

While these rooms are a great addition to the lounge (they were not present before the remodel), each room has a door with a window…anyone walking by can look right in. Also, the lights do not go fully off. I suppose the idea is that with two hours limit you should not get too comfortable…

Kids’ Play Room

A special room for children is available with a high chair and bean bag chair, plus video games and a widescreen.

Service

This isn’t quite like the Lufthansa First Class Terminal in Frankfurt or the Air France La Premiere Lounge in Paris where you have an attendant that looks after you. While staff do roam the lounge, you’re pretty much on your own…and that includes walking to your flight as well.

CONCLUSION

I spent two hours in this lounge and I think that was just the right amount of time…I love how tastefully decorated this lounge is and find the food and drink options excellent. The shower suites and bathrooms are also nicely done. But the nap rooms strike me as quite strange…though better than nothing.

Next, I’ll review the larger first class lounge next door.