Title: aespa Karina Earns Praise For THIS Surprising Feature
Source: Kpopstarz.com
URL: https://www.kpopstarz.com/articles/319217/20240504/aespa-karina-earns-praise-surprising-feature.htm
--------------------------------------------------

aespa member Karina is drawing attention to a certain feature of hers!

Ever since she was introduced as a member of aespa in 2020, Karina has earned praise for her AI-like beauty. With her oval-shaped face, high nose bridge, round eyes, and plump lips, Karina has the face many women aspire to have.

However, she is now being noticed for a totally different.

THIS Feature of aespa Karina Draws Praise

On May 3, 2024, a post titled, "Wow, Karina's neck is so long," was shared with the popular South Korean online community Nate Pann.

In the post, the original poster shared a photo of Karina from the airport. For her outfit, she wore an asymmetrical top that included a neck scarf. She paired the top with black jeans and a black purse. The idol's outfit is both sexy and chic, and she looks absolutely stunning.

However, it's not her visuals or her outfit that drew attention. It's her neck.

The post pointed out that Karina's scarf around her neck is so thick, it's almost palm-sized. However, it doesn't totally cover her neck, and you can still see some skin peeking through. The original poster commented that if they wore that top, the scarf would probably hit their chin.

Many people agreed with the user. Those with short necks commented on how jealous they were of how long Karina's neck was and praised the idol for her superior proportions. Others commented that she looked gorgeous, and claimed it's the best Karina has looked this year.

Others joked that her neck is long like a snack, and wondered if she knew the identity of the Black Mamba. The Black Mamba is the antagonist in aespa's worldview.

Some comments read,

"Wow. I also have a short neck, so I'm jealous seeing Karina's long and pretty neck."

"Is it long because she's actually a snake? Is this Black Mamba?"

"Wow, she is so pretty."

"Karina looks so pretty here. I think this is the prettiest picture I've seen this year."

What do you think of the situation? Tell us in the comments below!

aespa Recent Activities

aespa is slated to make their comeback with their first studio album, "Armageddon," on May 27. The comeback will be promoted by two lead singles: "Supernova," which will drop on May 13, and "Armageddon," which will be released alongside the album.

aespa is slated to commence their second world tour, "Synk: Parallel Line," with two concerts in Seoul on June 29 and 30.

KpopStarz Owns This