Title: How to Visit Jewel On A Singapore Changi Airport Layover
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2024/05/13/how-to-visit-jewel-on-a-singapore-changi-airport-layover/
--------------------------------------------------

13.3K

I’ve known how amazing Singapore’s Changi Airport is for a while. If you’re tuned into travel blogs, it’s hard to ignore. It took a while for my wife, Sharon, to learn about the airport, mainly after she started writing for Your Mileage May Vary.

She’s the one who wrote about:

Amazing things you can do at an airport (Butterfly Garden, Changi)

The most fun thing you could do at an airport (which she eventually did)

Easy ways to tour Singapore on a layover

On a recent trip through Southeast Asia, I offered Sharon the chance to route through Singapore. Since I’d been reading her posts about the airport, I knew she’d say yes. I planned for us to spend a night in Singapore before our return flight to the USA so we’d have plenty of time to explore.

That meant researching what you can do when visiting Singapore as a transit passenger. While many things are available without leaving the airport’s secure area, the one thing most people want to see requires you to enter Singapore.

What is Jewel?

Jewel is a massive shopping mall located at Changi Airport. While being a destination for visitors worldwide, it’s also a central meeting place for locals.

Jewel is directly connected to Changi Airport’s Terminal 1 and is a 5–10 minute walk from Terminals 2 and 3.

Do You Need to Enter Singapore to Visit Jewel?

Yes—Jewel is located outside of the transit zone, beyond Singapore passport control. This means you’ll have to formally enter Singapore to visit.

Fortunately, for US passport holders, no visa is required to enter Singapore.

US Passport Holders (regular, official and diplomatic) do not require a visa to enter Singapore for business or for social visit purposes.

You do need to fill out an online SG Arrival Card before arrival. If you forget to do it in advance, you can complete it in the terminal before going to passport control. Once there, we simply scanned our passports—Singapore already had our info.

Since we were staying at the airport hotel, we dropped off our luggage and then walked to Jewel.

Seeing the Rain Vortex

Once there, we saw what everyone visiting Singapore wants to see: the Rain Vortex.

I can’t tell you how many times I’ve seen pictures and videos of the waterfall, but it was even more impressive in person.

Singapore has several landmarks that are popular among tourists, including Marina Bay Sands, Gardens by the Bay, and Jewel Changi Airport. Although Jewel and the Rain Vortex are situated at the airport, you still need to exit the transit area and enter Singapore to visit them. Judging by how many people were wheeling carry-on bags, many visitors seem to stop here on a layover.

Other Ways to See Jewel on a Layover

If you’re short on time or need a visa to enter Singapore, you can still catch a glimpse of the Rain Vortex. The shuttle train between Terminals 2 and 3 passes through Jewel and offers an incredible view, even from the transit area.

If you have access to the Singapore Airlines KrisWorld Lounge, like we did with our Business Class tickets, it’s easy to relax in the terminal for a few hours. But if you have more time, it’s absolutely worth it to leave the secure area and explore Jewel yourself.

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!