Title: Innovations From Tomorrow: Futuristic Finds From Across The Globe (36 PICS + 2 GIFS)
Source: Izismile.com
URL: https://izismile.com/2024/04/12/innovations_from_tomorrow_futuristic_finds_from_across_the_globe_36_pics_2_gifs.html
--------------------------------------------------

This hotel in Singapore is UNDERWATER.

And you can literally stay in an ice hotel in Sweden.

This hotel in China has room service delivered by a robot, and I'm sorry, but is China living in the 3000s?

At the Incheon International Airport in Seoul, you can literally have a robot transport your bags.

Along with robots that help you check flight info.

Also, can we just take a moment to admire this airport terminal in Singapore? It looks like something out of Tomorrowland.

You can locate your car at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport just by typing your license plate into this kiosk. Y'all, I can't tell you how many times I have spent an hour searching for my car in a car park. This machine would've been a LIFESAVER.

In the Netherlands, some grocery stores have machines that can tell you if your avocado is ripe. As someone who ALWAYS guesses wrong, I need this.

At this market at a college in the Netherlands, you can vote on items you like or dislike and actually have a say in what the store orders more or less of.

This 3D park in China might be one of the coolest things I've ever seen.

Here's a gif of it in action. I think I'd pee my pants, but it'd be worth it.

Also in China, they have this wild 3D digital billboard that literally looks...well, three-dimensional.

Here's one more 3D illusion from China, this time in a digital mall billboard. Like, was no one gonna tell me China is at the forefront of 3D technology???

Germany has a holographic circus.

You can take an elevator through an aquarium in this hotel in Berlin.

This is apparently what movie tickets look like in Korea, and I'm kind of obsessed.

Like, look how awesome this ticket for Joker is!

South Korea also has highway bike paths covered with solar panels to protect cyclists from the sun AND generate clean energy.

In Singapore, you can have a robot make you an omelet, and y'all, I think this is the future.