Title: Dispatch Reveals Seungri Was Two-Timing Different Girls During His Bali Vacation
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/dispatch-reveals-seungri-two-timing-different-girls-bali-vacation/
--------------------------------------------------

Dispatch has revealed Seungri was seeing two different women at the same time while on vacation in Bali.

In an exclusive report, Dispatch detailed how Seungri brought two women to Bali following a fine-tuned timeline to make sure their schedules did not overlap. Dispatch first shared a conversation between Seungri and “Woman B” regarding “Woman A” on September 28.

Seungri: Dating… I don’t know how I’d define dating… Sigh…

Woman B: You’ve led the person on to think they’re in a relationship with you. You’re just playing with their feelings. You’re making a fool out of them.

Seungri: I never asked her out, though…

B: Well, she thinks you gave her reason to believe you’re her boyfriend.

Seungri: But I— Okay, I’ll talk to her.

B: Is this how you’ve been doing all of your relationships?

Seungri: Well, you know. The last time I was in a relationship, it was a long one.

B: Do you think so lightly of all women?

Following this conversation, Woman B had nothing else to say to Seungri. She packed her bags, headed to the airport, and left to return to Korea.

Getting Caught

Seungri failed to get away with two-timing. His fantasy of having dates with multiple women in Bali failed as he got caught.

He planned the trips carefully. Woman A would come to Bali and leave before Woman B arrived. The dates of their trips wouldn’t overlap, so the two wouldn’t cross paths. But there was a problem. Women A and B had the same itineraries and plans. The same sea-side accommodations, restaurants, and cafes. This is how Woman B caught on and confronted Seungri. What Seungri forgot was that Women A and B knew each other, following each other on Instagram.

When I saw A’s Instagram stories, I was suspicious of what I was seeing. A posted photos of the restaurant and cafe that I went to with Seungri, too.

It was the same places. The accommodations, the restaurant, the sea-side views, the cafe… Everything was all the same. That’s when I got goosebumps. He swapped out the girl and repeated the same course. Does that make sense?

— Woman B

Woman B called Seungri, demanding an explanation. At the same time, she contacted Woman A as well, simply asking if she went to Bali with Seungri.

Yes.

— Woman A

The Prelude To Bali

On September 1, Seungri and Woman A officially began dating. It was this day when Seungri told his foreign friends about the start of his new relationship.

A and I are official, starting today.

— Seungri

Same day, Seungri suggested a trip to Bali. He said it would be from September 21-25. After a lot of consideration, Woman A agreed and Seungri booked the accommodations and flights.

On the other hand, Seungri and Woman B have been in a long-standing relationship. They had known each other for a while. On September 7, they ran into each other for the first time in nearly four years. They ended up getting dinner together. Seungri, one of his foreigner friends, Women A and B attended this dinner. This is where and when Women A and B followed each other on Instagram.

Since that dinner, Seungri and Woman B kept in touch. They would message each other regularly, even when Seungri was abroad. Seungri then suggested a trip to Bali, from September 25-28.

Seungri: Are you going home?

B: Yep, hehe.

B: I miss you.

Seungri: [Gym Selfie]

While pursuing Woman B, Seungri kept things open with Woman A, too. He would text A while on a call with B. He would take A out to lunch, then B out to dinner.

We connected again after four years. We had a thing going at one point. But then he got into trouble, we lost contact with each other, and he got himself a girlfriend. So, I was over him for a while…

But after seeing him for the first time in a while, I started having feelings for him again.

He said that he was completely done and over with his old girlfriend that appeared on the news with him. Then, he suggested we go to Bali together, saying that he wanted to give our relationship another chance. I didn’t have any issue with that at the time.

— “B”

Wow, Fantastic Baby

The timeline for Woman A’s Bali trip with Seungri was as follows:

September 21: Depart from Incheon International Airport, arrive at Bali Gusti Ngurah Rai International Airport, Seungri to pick A up

September 22: Golfing, clubbing

September 23: Cafe, sunset watch by the sea, clubbing

September 24: Phở restaurant, beach, clubbing

September 25: Depart from Bali

When Seungri finished dropping off Woman A at the Bali airport departure hall, he looked towards the sky and waved his hands in delight. He then headed straight to the arrival hall to pick up Woman B.

I felt so embarrassed when Woman B contacted me. Every part of our itineraries were all the same. Only the woman changed.

All of my stops aligned with B’s. The same restaurants, the same menus. He recommended the sandwich that I liked to B. The pictures with the sunset in the background… It was all the same, down to even the finest details.

The picture of the golf course? I took that picture on September 22. Seungri sent it to B saying he was there with business acquaintances and that he was so tired. Just wow.

— Woman A

Finally, Woman B provided one last comment to Dispatch.

I confirmed that Seungri was two-timing me and then immediately left. Seungri went to the club the next day, September 29. He never reflects on his actions. He will never change.

— Woman B

A: I’m going to throw up.

B: [Picture of Seungri in the hotel room]

B: He came over, I’m talking to him right now.

B: What are you going to do, unnie?

B: Did you know he picked me up at the airport after dropping you off?

Woman B also shared the messages she sent to Seungri, following the reveal of his two-timing.

B: You should have been apologizing to me, and that wouldn’t have been enough. Instead, you’ve been lying to me from the beginning to end, treating me as if I’m an idiot.

B: Like, wow… I don’t deserve to be treated like this. I’ve been a hard-working person all my life. You’re driving me crazy.

B: You haven’t learned any lessons, have you?

B: They say bad habits don’t die.

Seungri: My apology was sincere.

B: All your excuses are just lies.

B: From the start to the end.

B: There are probably more victims out there, huh? Do you even understand what kind of damage you’ve done to two women?

B: Ugh… I’m getting chills down my back. I’ve never been this angry out of my mind.

B: You think nothing of people around you, huh? Damn it.