Title: Lam Dong province proposes new flights to Singapore
Source: Vietnamplus.vn
URL: https://en.vietnamplus.vn/lam-dong-province-proposes-new-flights-to-singapore/271978.vnp
--------------------------------------------------

Lam Dong (VNA) – The Lam Dong provincial People Committee has proposedbudget carrier Vietjet Air open direct flights from the locality’s LienKhuong airport to Singapore to boost investment and tourism links.

On average, the airport served 40 flights with 6,700 passengers a day. Since 2017, internationalroutes at the airport have sserved 1,723 flights with nearly 238,000 foreign passengers. Currently, Vietjet Air is operating six directflights to Incheon airport of the Republicof Korea (RoK) per week.

The airport was built on February 24, 1961. It services Bamboo Airways, Pacific Airlines, Vietjet Air,Vietnam Airlines, Vietravel Airlines, transporting passengers to nine provincesand cities nationwide.

It also accommodates international flights to theRoK, Thailand and Malaysia. Among them, Vietjet Air transports passengersto seven domestic destinations, including Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, Can Tho, HaiPhong, Vinh, Phu Quoc and to three Korean cities,namely Busan, Muan, and Incheon.

The opening of the Lien Khuong-Singapore air route is expected to create conditions for the Central Highlands province to connect with thecity state, lift investment cooperation andeconomic development while supporting the locality in promoting tourism in the coming time.

Bestowed with year-round cool climate, green pineforests, misty landscapes, and resplendent architectural gems dating back tothe colonial era, the resort city of Da Lat in Lam Dong is a well-known destination both at home and abroad.

In 2023, Da Lat aims to welcome 6.5 million tourists, an increase of 18.2% from the previous year. This includes 250,000 international visitors, up 67% year-on-year.

In the first eight months of this year, the city hosted 4.7 million visitors, up 1.8% year-on-year./.