Title: Japanese budget airline Peach Aviation launches new daily direct Singapore-Osaka flights from December
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/travel/peach-aviation-singapore-osaka-direct-flights-low-cost-carrier-397256
--------------------------------------------------

Japanese low-cost carrier Peach Aviation announced on Thursday (Aug 29) the launch of its new daily direct Singapore to Osaka flights from Changi Airport.

The service will start on Dec 5 and tickets priced from S$164.20 (US$126) one way are already on sale.

Peach is the only Japanese airline to operate this route, which has a flight time of six and a half hours. Singapore Airlines and Scoot are the other airlines that operate this route.

The new service is operated on the Airbus A321LR aircraft with a 3-3 seat layout and 218 seats with a maximum seat pitch of 81cm, which the airline says is on par with full-service carriers. Seat pitch refers to the distance from any point of one seat to the same point on the seat behind or in front of it.

Each seat also comes equipped with a USB charging port.

For its announced Dec 5 to Mar 29, 2025 schedule, the flights will depart from Singapore Changi Airport at 2.15am and arrive at Kansai International Airport in Osaka at 9.35am.

The return flight will depart from Osaka at 6.50pm and arrive in Singapore at 1am the next morning.

Attractions in Osaka include Universal Studios Japan, Osaka Castle and the vibrant Dotonbori district.

Satoru Endo, chief corporate planning officer of Peach, said: “We are very pleased that Peach will be the only Japanese airline to operate the Singapore-Osaka route. With a more spaced-out, cutting-edge Airbus A321LR aircraft, we will take you to Osaka in comfort and offer you an exciting experience in the booming Kansai region, which is set to host the Osaka-Kansai World Expo in 2025.

“Furthermore, from Osaka, Peach is connected to 13 destinations in Japan. We look forward to welcome travellers with Peach's reasonable fares.”