Title: Dutch Grand Prix To Drop Off F1 Calendar After 2026
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/yaraelshebiny/2024/12/04/dutch-grand-prix-to-drop-off-f1-calendar-after-2026/
--------------------------------------------------

Formula 1 has announced that Max Verstappen's home race, the Dutch Grand Prix, will be removed from the calendar after its final edition in 2026.

F1 made its return to Zandvoort in 2021 after a lengthy 35-year absence, coinciding with Verstappen’s rise to dominance in the sport.

But after long discussions, the promoter has decided that 2026 will mark the last running of the Dutch Grand Prix. A one-year contract extension has been signed to host the final event in 2026, which will feature a sprint for the first time at Zandvoort.

“We are a privately owned and operated business, and we must balance the opportunities presented by continuing to host the event, against other risks and responsibilities,” said Robert van Overdijk, the director of the Dutch Grand Prix.

“We have decided to go out on a high with two more incredible Dutch Grands Prix in 2025 and 2026. We wanted to take this step while our event is adored and supported by passionate fans, residents, and the Formula One community.

“I want to thank Stefano Domenicali and all the team at Formula One for the hard work that has seen multiple contract extensions realised and the Dutch Grand Prix be such a success.”

The event has become a key highlight on the calendar since its return in 2021, especially for fans of home hero Verstappen, who clinched victory there three years in a row from 2021 to 2023. This year's race, however, saw Lando Norris of McLaren beat the Dutchman to the checkered flag by more than 20 seconds to claim his second career win.

Zandvoort has also been at the forefront of sustainability in F1, pioneering technologies that are now used throughout the calendar.

“I am incredibly grateful for the work that the team at the Dutch Grand Prix have done in recent years,” said Stefano Domenicali, President and CEO of F1.

“They raised the bar for European Grands Prix in terms of event spectacle and entertainment, supported the development of young talent by hosting F2, F3 and our F1 ACADEMY series, and have also pioneered sustainable solutions that have inspired our events around the world as we drive towards being Net Zero by 2030.

“All parties positively collaborated to find a solution to extend the race, with many options, including alternation or annual events on the table, and we respect the decision from the promoter to finish its amazing run in 2026.

“I want to thank all the team at the Dutch Grand Prix and the Municipality of Zandvoort who have been fantastic partners to Formula 1.”

The 2025 Dutch Grand Prix will take place from August 29 to 31. The date for the final race in 2026 will be confirmed next year.

Dutch Grand Prix's Exit Leaves A Slot Open

Zandvoort’s exit after the 2026 event would leave a slot open on the F1 calendar for new venues to step in.

In 2026, F1 will make its debut in Madrid as the Spanish Grand Prix shifts from Barcelona. However, officials at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya are still keen on reaching an agreement to remain on the calendar.

Meanwhile, Thailand has shown a strong interest in hosting an F1 race, particularly a street race in Bangkok, as they believe such an opportunity will boost the country’s status as a major tourism hub.

Earlier this year, Thailand’s prime minister, Srettha Thavisin, revealed that he had discussions with Domenicali regarding the potential for Thailand to join the F1 calendar.

“Thailand has the potential to host Formula One in Bangkok; if successful, I am confident that our home will be one of the most impressive hosts,” said the prime minister on X.

“Today, I had a discussion with Mr. Stefano Domenicali, Chief Executive Officer of Formula One Group, who had the honour of visiting Thailand at the invitation of the government.

“I sincerely hope that this trip to Thailand to explore the possibility of expanding Formula One in Thailand will give us insight and explore routes that show Thailand's potential to host Formula 1 races.”

Should Thailand land a deal to host an F1 race in 2027, it could generate around four billion baht (approximately $108 million) in economic value and create over 1,000 jobs, according to Jakkaphon Tangsutthitham, a deputy secretary general to the premier.

It would also mark the addition of yet another street circuit, joining Saudi Arabia, Australia, Miami, Monaco, Canada, Azerbaijan, Singapore, and Las Vegas.

However, Thailand isn't the only Asian country looking to secure a spot on the F1 calendar. South Korea, which hosted races between 2010 and 2013, is also making a strong push to bring F1 back to its shores.

Incheon mayor Yoo Jeong-bok met with Domenicali during the 2024 Japanese Grand Prix weekend in Suzuka to deliver a letter of intent to host a new street race.

“Incheon is the best place to host F1, as it has a transportation network such as Incheon Airport and Incheon Port and many luxury accommodations,” said Jeong-bok, as reported by the Independent. “We will begin full-scale discussions to host F1 Incheon.”

The race would be named ‘Incheon Grand Prix’ as opposed to the Korean Grand Prix, which was held from 2010 to 2013 at the Yeongam circuit.

Fernando Alonso took the checkered flag in the first Korean GP for Ferrari, while Sebastian Vettel dominated the remaining three races.