Title: A collaboration with Stella and Mary McCartney, The Macallan Harmony Collection Green Meadow brings the Scottish grasslands to life
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnaluxury.channelnewsasia.com/advertorial/collaboration-stella-and-mary-mccartney-macallan-harmony-collection-green-meadow-brings-scottish-grasslands-life-243891
--------------------------------------------------

One is a world-famous fashion designer. The other, a celebrated photographer. Widely respected for their work, Stella and Mary McCartney are remarkable figures in their individual disciplines, with an influence that mirrors their legendary father, Paul McCartney.

Some of the pair’s fondest memories trace back to their family’s Scottish home nestled along the picturesque west coast, amid pristine landscapes. These formative moments, immortalised within The Macallan Harmony Collection Green Meadow, elucidate their commitment to preserving nature’s splendour. Marking its third annual edition, this series also explores innovative packaging with renewable materials, upholding The Macallan distillery’s sustainability pledge.

A RETURN TO SCOTLAND

For Stella and Mary, springtime in Scotland brings to mind boundless green fields surrounding their family farm. Through the decades, their cherished memories, etched against the backdrop of the dramatic landscape, have not only shaped their notions of family, sisterhood and community, but have also forged a deep emotional connection to the unspoiled countryside.

Their journey to The Macallan estate revealed a kindred spirit – a close-knit circle of artisans along the River Spey, working in harmony with the land to produce the renowned whiskies. Inspired by the “energising and serene” quality of Scotland’s fertile beauty, Stella and Mary came together as creative partners for the first time, contributing to a new expression for the distillery.

The distillery’s commitment to future-forward packaging involves repurposing organic by-products and breathing new life into resources at the end of their cycle, such as chocolate and coffee bean husks for the first two editions of The Harmony Collection.

The Macallan Harmony Collection Green Meadow delivers its storied concept through a meticulously crafted sensory journey. Visually, it mirrors the golden hues of a spring morning, evoking the gentle light of dawn. To the nose, the aroma of bright citrus and earthy petrichor stir up the senses, and with each inhalation, one is drawn deeper into a trail of wildflowers that culminates in a delicate primrose finish.

The sip itself brings on a blossoming lushness. A lively blend of rich lemon and barley sugars is complemented by creamy vanilla and almond notes, enhanced by fresh oak accents. The finish is sweet, fragrant and creamy, and like the days of the season, deliciously long.

The final packaging is embellished with a photograph of The Macallan’s verdant lands that was captured by Mary.

TIME FOR TRAVEL

Passengers travelling through Singapore Changi Airport till Apr 10, 2024, can experience this pastoral springtime dream even more vividly with an immersive pop-up at Terminal 1, Departure Hall. Enjoy a rare chance to taste the limited-edition whisky and personalise your purchased bottle with exclusive gift-wrapping.

What sets this pop-up apart are its interactive elements, designed to transport visitors into the heart of Scotland through the shared memories of Stella and Mary. To enhance the adventure, a curated experience tray will fill the air with the fresh fragrances of Scottish meadows, creating an invigorating ambiance.

Available as a travel exclusive, The Macallan Harmony Collection Green Meadow can be found at select Lotte Singapore duty-free shops at the airport. The release includes Amber Meadow, a sister creation sharing the same theme, and available for domestic sale.

Join Stella and Mary McCartney in their journey with The Macallan Harmony Collection Green Meadow; available at select Lotte Duty Free shops in Singapore Changi Airport.