Title: 4 Airline Lounges That Go Above And Beyond
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicoletrilivas/2024/01/02/4-airline-lounges-that-go-above-and-beyond/
--------------------------------------------------

While some airlines are cutting corners and cutting back on their lounge offerings, others are going above and beyond to provide a next-level customer experience.

Privilege and Privacy

Virgin Atlantic's Clubhouse at London Heathrow Airport

With a private entrance, arriving at Virgin Atlantic's exclusive Upper Class Wing feels more like arriving at a private airport terminal than one of the world's busiest airports. The entrance to the Upper Class Wing is annexed to Heathrow's Terminal 3, and high flyers are whisked from car to Clubhouse in no time at all, as there's also a private security channel that leads straight into the lounge. While the private entrance and private security screening are the real U.S.P. of this flagship Clubhouse, there are also plenty amenities to enjoy once you're inside the lounge, such as Peloton bikes; a brasserie with table service; and quiet reading nooks.

MORE FOR YOU

High Style

Cathay Pacific's The Pier at Hong Kong International Airport

No matter how fantastic the amenities may be, most airline lounges feel like airline lounges—that is to say, sterile, corporate and lacking in any real style; however, Cathay Pacific's The Pier lounge in Hong Kong is the exception to the rule. Crafted by one of London's top home interior designers Ilse Crawford, creative director and founder of Studioilse, this lounge is seriously stylish with swathes of milky green onyx, moody gold lighting and thick carpeting. It's infused with a signature fragrance—a blend of lavender, bamboo, green tea, and jasmine—designed to make travelers feel relaxed. The overall effect is very much upscale while still maintaining a sense of comfort. Beyond the high design, the lounge is also home to a stylish horseshoe bar; day suites with vast windows overlooking the tarmac; and a mini-spa with short treatments.

Full-Fledge Feast

Turkish Airlines' Miles & Smiles Lounge at Istanbul Airport

The food offering at Turkish Airlines' flagship Istanbul Miles & Smiles Lounge is exceptional. There's food set up across the whole elevated space, spanning over 10,000 square feet in Istanbul's new airport, slated to be fully complete by 2027. While there's cuisine from all over the world, Turkey's gastronomy is the star of the show with stations for grilled meats and vegetables along with signature baked dishes like simit, börek and pide. There are also regional products, like butter from the countryside of Trabzon, and the mezzes are unmatched with over 40 options from all around Turkey. For beverages, there are all the usual suspects (easily accessible in free-standing fridges), plus a variety of high-end loose-leaf teas and traditional Turkish coffee. Dessert tables serve lokum (Turkish delight), plus other classics like baklava.

Real Rest and Relaxation

Singapore Airlines' The Private Room at Singapore Changi Airport

Some lounges have low-slung chairs for you to lie back and kick up your feet, and others have quiet areas or relaxation nooks. These are all great, but not always conducive to deep sleep. At Singapore Airlines' The Private Room at its Changi Airport hub, visitors have access to a whole nap room. More like a basic hotel room, there are four nap rooms available, each with a desk and chair and—most importantly—a real bed for some true rest and relaxation between flights.