Title: South Korea orders airline safety probe after plane crash kills 179
Source: Japan Today
URL: https://japantoday.com/category/world/south-korea-orders-airline-safety-probe-after-worst-domestic-crash-kills-1794
--------------------------------------------------

Please upgrade to a more modern version to fully experience JapanToday site and for security reasons

JapanToday
			Sotokanda S Bldg. 4F
					5-2-1 Sotokanda
					Chiyoda-ku
					Tokyo 101-0021
					Japan
					Tel: +81 3 5829 5900
					Fax: +81 3 5829 5919
			Email: editor@japantoday.com
			©2026
			GPlusMedia Inc.

The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.

Two things I would be interested in.  One, take a cross section of captains and first officers, put them in simulators and what how they fly the simulator,  Look at their cockpit management and communications.  How do they share the workload on departure and approach?  Doe they rely on an auto coupled approach system when it isn't needed, such as visual meteorological conditions?  Throw some simulated emergencies at them.  See how they respond, do they adhere to publish procedures in the flight manual?  Do they even have the procedures memorized?

Then put some in real airplanes and see if they can hand fly approaches, including simulated single engine approaches.  Most modern large passenger aircraft have the ability to conduct an "autocoupled" approach, where the aircraft acquires the signal from an "Instrument Landing System" and that signal is coupled to the aircraft's autopilot, which then flies the airplane hands off to a point 50 feet or less over the runway, at which point all the pilots have to do is pull the throttles back and land.  That is nice when the weather is really bad, it saves airlines from having to divert flights during bad weahter, but a lot of pilots have the habit of using this system all the time even on nice clear sunny days.   In doing so they lose the skill to fly an approach manually and set the aircraft up for a landing.  Airliners do not respond like a light aircraft and it is real easy to get behind the aircraft if you haven't hand flown approaches and landings in a long time, and most airlines don't have money to let their aircrews take an airplane up in the landing pattern somewhere for some touch and go or instrument approach training sans autopilot.

When an emergency arises where pilot skill becomes necessary, all those hands off autocoupled approaches bite them in the backside because the crew doesn't have the skill to hand fly the airplane under emergency conditions.

Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.

Learn how to get a mortgage in Japan. The webinar will be held from 7pm to 8pm (JST) on June 25 (Thursday), 2026.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.