Title: Warburg Pincus-Backed ESR-LOGOS To Buy Japan, Singapore Properties For $576 Million
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/yessarrosendar/2024/07/31/warburg-pincus-backed-esr-logos-to-buy-japan-singapore-properties-for-576-million/
--------------------------------------------------

ESR-LOGOS REIT, a Singapore-based real estate investment trust backed by U.S. private equity firm Warburg Pincus, has agreed to buy stakes in logistics properties across Japan and Singapore for $576 million from its Hong Kong-listed parent ESR Group as the company taps on Asia’s booming e-commerce.

Under the deal announced on Wednesday, ESR-LOGOS said it will acquire 100% of a warehouse in Nagoya, Japan for 38 billion yen ($252 million). Located in a logistics hub, the four-story facility spans 79,096 square meters and boasts of an occupancy rate of 89%.

Meanwhile, ESR-LOGOS said it is buying 51% of an integrated manufacturing and logistics facility that’s strategically located near the Tuas Port—the mega container yard Singapore is building in the most western part of the city-state—for S$434.2 million ($324 million). The port can handle 65 million twenty-foot equivalent units of cargo boxes annually when completed by 2027, up from 39 million TEUs currently.

The facility being acquired by ESR-LOGOS comprises a manufacturing facility and newly constructed ramp-up logistics warehouses, spanning 252,733 square meters.

“The proposed acquisitions from our sponsor’s pipeline are quality on-strategy assets,” Adrian Chui, CEO and executive director of the company said in a statement, adding that the acquisition is aligned with ESR-LOGOS’ aim to invest in new economy assets that will help boost revenue and net property income going forward.

The company will finance the acquisition through a combination of green debt financing and a preferential offering of new units.

As of June, ESR LOGOS had total assets valued at S$5.0 billion, comprising 71 properties with a combined gross floor area of 2.1 million square meters across Australia, Japan and Singapore.