Title: Easy + Efficient: Bus From Seoul To Incheon Airport
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/seoul-to-incheon-airport-bus/
--------------------------------------------------

While I flew into Seoul Gimpo Airport, I flew out of Seoul Incheon Airport. To reach the airport from central Seoul, it proved much easier to take a bus (6103) than a subway train.

My Bus Ride From Seoul To Incheon Airport

I was staying at the Park Hyatt Seoul and a bus station was located at the nearby COEX Convention & Exhibition Center that would take me nonstop to Seoul Incheon Airport (ICN). This station is also known as Seoul Station City Air Terminal and Samseong Station. While traffic is notoriously bad in Seoul and the 44-mile journey takes about 1 hour, 45 minutes, taking the Metro/subway from my hotel would have required two connections and taken over two hours.

Even though I was traveling light, I was happy to pay a bit more for a bus that had wi-fi onboard and would travel nonstop.

I purchased my ticket from a machine in the bus station (with English translation). The process was quick and easy and I tapped my credit card to pay. The cost was 18,000 KRW (about 13 USD).

I boarded the bus–which was not full–and we pulled out precisely on time (to the second) at 1:40 pm…that was impressive.

The motor coach had fairly comfortable seats in a 1-2 configuration that were well-padded with sufficient legroom and even generous recline (though I am not sure how I would have felt if the person in front of me suddenly reclined…).

While it appeared the bus was wired to accommodate various audio and video channels via earphones, the system was turned off.

Traffic was heavy until we got out of Seoul and the journey took the full 1 hour, 45 minutes, but the internet worked and the ride was smooth.

We finally reached the airport, where stops were made at Terminal 1 and Terminal 2.

Overall, riding bus 6013 could not have been a smoother process and represents a cost-efficient and productive way to travel between Seoul and Incheon Airport.