Title: Delta speeds up baggage transfers on Seoul–Atlanta route — here’s what flyers must know of the new upgrade
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/us/delta-baggage-transfer-seoul-atlanta-delta-speeds-up-baggage-transfers-on-seoulatlanta-route-heres-what-flyers-must-know-of-the-new-upgrade/articleshow/123305790.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Delta baggage transfer: Delta baggage transfer Seoul Atlanta: Delta Air Lines simplifies baggage handling for flights from Seoul to Atlanta. Passengers on Delta and Korean Air no longer need to recheck bags in Atlanta. This saves about 25 minutes during layovers. Security checks remain necessary. The system relies on pre-screening by South Korean and US security.

Delta baggage transfer: If you've ever flown into the United States from abroad, you know the drill: you arrive, stand in line at passport control, retrieve your checked bags, re-check them, then proceed through security, all before you can connect to a domestic flight, as per a report. But now, Delta Air Lines is streamlining that process for passengers who arrive from South Korea, according to an Aviation A2Z report.

Delta Streamlines Baggage Transfers for Seoul to Atlanta Flights

The carrier has added its streamlined baggage transfer program on flights from Seoul's Incheon International Airport (ICN) to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL), as per the report. Customers flying with Delta or Korean Air from Seoul to Atlanta will no longer have to retrieve and recheck their bags upon arrival, as per the Aviation A2Z report.

ALSO READ: Bullish breaks the market: Stock jumps 90% triggering circuit breaker, and m-cap hits $10 billion - here's what it does

How Much Time Can You Save?

Passengers will save around 25 minutes off the time it would normally take during layovers to connect to a domestic flight, according to the report.

Security Process Remains the Same For Now

However, travellers will still need to go through security in Atlanta, that part hasn’t changed yet, but their luggage will now automatically transfer to their connecting flight, so that means no need to haul it around the airport or wait in another line to recheck it, as per the Aviation A2Z report.

Live Events

ALSO READ: Is it AI or Trump's policies? US sees brutal 140% layoff spike in July, worst surge since early COVID chaos

Behind the Scenes: How Your Bags Get Pre-Screened

This new process is possible due to the coordination and collaboration between South Korean airport security and the US Transportation Security Administration (TSA), as reported by Aviation A2Z.

While the plane is in the air, Incheon's security officers send X-ray photographs of passengers' luggage ahead to be checked by TSA agents in the United States, according to the report. The TSA inspects those scans when the aircraft is en route to the United States, so when the plane touches down, there is no necessity for further screening of baggage, as per the Aviation A2Z report.

ALSO READ: Giant Wyoming data center to guzzle 5x more power than residents, but the user remains secret

One-Stop Baggage Transfer Program: Where Else Does It Apply?

Delta's not the only airline introducing this type of system, and the one-stop baggage transfer policy already applies to Delta passengers arriving in Atlanta from London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and to travellers on American Airlines (AA) connecting at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) after flights from LHR, as reported by Aviation A2Z.

Here is the one-stop baggage transfer program coverage, as compiled by Aviation A2Z:

London Heathrow (LHR) → Atlanta (ATL) or Dallas Fort Worth (DFW): No recheck of bags, nor re-clearance through security

Seoul Incheon (ICN) → Atlanta (ATL) on Delta or Korean Air: Baggage transfers automatically, but requires a security recheck

Sydney Kingsford Smith (SYD) → Los Angeles (LAX) on American Airlines: Baggage transfers automatically, security recheck still needed

Atlanta (ATL) or Dallas (DFW) → London Heathrow (LHR): No security recheck needed on arrival at LHR

Delta also confirmed that it's moving towards phasing out the security recheck process for Seoul–Atlanta flights, according to the report.

ALSO READ: As the July jobs report paints a grim picture, 114 companies plan layoffs in August - is yours on the list?

Plans to Expand One-Stop Baggage Transfers Globally

TSA and US Customs have pointed out that the initiative is aimed at enhancing efficiency without risking safety, and have plans to expand the one-stop model to other countries that have high security standards, as per the Aviation A2Z report.

ALSO READ: Leaked: iPhone 17 Pro Max internal design shows game-changing metal battery, hints at big redesign

What Seoul to Atlanta Passengers Need to Know

You no longer have to pick up or recheck your checked luggage in Atlanta

You'll still have to pass through security after passing passport control

The alteration might save you about 25 minutes when you're connecting to a domestic flight

FAQs

Does this apply to all flights from Seoul to the US?

Currently, it applies to Delta and Korean Air flights arriving in Atlanta, as per the Aviation A2Z report.

How much time will this save me during my layover?

This new process can save about 25 minutes, as per the Aviation A2Z report.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the US News, UK News, Canada News, International Breaking News Events, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily International News Updates.

...moreless