Title: Delta Brings Refreshed Menus and Tip Top Margaritas to Premium Cabins
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/delta-brings-refreshed-menus-and-tip-top-margaritas-to-premium-cabins/
--------------------------------------------------

3.2K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Delta Air Lines released news of its latest menu refresh for First Class and Delta One® passengers. New additions include Tip Top Margaritas, Korean braised beef short ribs, scrambled eggs with hashbrown cake and chicken sausage gravy, and more.

Tip Top Margaritas

Delta is bringing this fan favorite back to domestic flights. The margarita scored 95 points from Wine Enthusiast. It’s great to see a new option. My husband will certainly try these margaritas.

Delta One® customers headed to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) will soon be able to enjoy Korean braised beef short rib with mixed rice, mushroom, broccoli, and sweet soy sauce. Kimchee and doenjang soup with soybean paste are also included, along with a vegetarian bao bun with curried potato salad and pickled cucumbers.

New Domestic First Class Options

Domestic First Class customers departing from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) will enjoy new dishes from Chef Mashama Bailey, winner of the 2022 James Beard Foundation’s “Outstanding American Chef” award and Executive Chef and cofounder of The Grey, an award-winning restaurant in Savannah, GA. New dishes include: scrambled eggs with hashbrown cake and chicken sausage gravy; frittata with spiced tomato sauce, fingerling potatoes and bell peppers; and Grey Market pecan granola with mixed berry compote and almond milk for breakfast.

Lunch and dinner entrée options will include beef short ribs from Atlanta-based Fox Bros. Bar-B-Q; glazed smoked chicken with quinoa salad; and baked mac-n-cheese with toasted garlic breadcrumbs and broccoli. Each will be served with a whipped cream-topped lemon bar. I’m looking forward to trying this out.

More Delta One® and First Class Choices

Delta One® customers flying international on select flights can taste Chef Bailey’s Creole shrimp with creamy grits and tomato gravy. Also available: Grilled bratwurst with braised red cabbage, herb mashed potatoes, green beans and a grain mustard demi-glace; cauliflower soup with a snipped-chives garnish; poached shrimp appetizer with cucumber yogurt sauce and lemon; and a side salad of mixed greens with radish, tomatoes and balsamic vinaigrette.

First Class customers on select routes will be offered seasonal, locally sourced menu items featuring flavors like charcuterie and cheese with Brooklyn Cured smoked beef salami; Neapolitan-style pepperoni pizza; and a vegetarian breakfast burrito with potatoes, salsa verde, Monterey Jack cheese and pico de gallo.

Delta Premium Select customers will soon be able to preorder meals on international flights. Delta is also introducing Fat Tire Ale, Ethics Drinks “Tchin” Sparkling Wine, Gambino Sparkling Wine, and Quinta do Noval 10-Year Tawny Port on select flights.

Anthony’s Take: Some of these new menu options sound delicious. I can’t wait to try them onboard in the near future.

(Image Credits: Delta Air Lines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.