Title: Luxury Retail Stores On The Rise At International Airports
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kaleighmoore/2024/03/29/luxury-retail-stores-on-the-rise-at-international-airports/
--------------------------------------------------

Luxury retailers are leaning into international airports as an opportunity to meet luxury buyers where they are; a move that underscores a global appetite for luxury retail experiences that resonate with many generations of travelers.

This shift capitalizes on what Augé noted in 2020: the fact that airports are often viewed by travelers as in-between spaces of constant renewal.

This creates a unique, transitory environment away from daily routines in which the “tourist gaze” takes over; a buyer mindset that’s less influenced by everyday stresses, rules, and pressures.

Luxury brands like Parfums Christian Dior have capitalized on this with launches like its La Collection Privée fragrance boutique at New York John F. Kennedy International Airport in Terminal One.

In partnership with International Shoppes, shoppers can find 22 different Dior fragrances, a curated selection of Dior Couture's Mitzah scarves, sunglasses, as well as bespoke services like personalized engraving offered in-store.

“This boutique represents not just a partnership or a shop; it’s a symbol of hope, resilience, and the enduring power of collaboration for the future of travel retail,” said Andre Marzloff, LVMH Beauty Managing Director for Travel Retail Americas, during the opening ceremonies.

We see more of this on the West Coast: At SFO in San Fransico, you’ll find luxury retail stores for brands like Burberry, Gucci, Hermes, and Saint Laurent. The Los Angeles airport LAX is home to stores by brands like AllSaints, Porsche Design, and Coach.

But this luxury retail expansion isn’t confined to North American airports. Schiphol Airport's Lounge Two in Amsterdam is undergoing an extensive makeover aimed at redefining luxury retail for its international travelers with retail presences from brands like BVLGARI and Louis Vuitton.

Aeroporti di Roma in Italy also upped its luxury retail focus with the introduction of 14 high-end fashion brands there—including the debuts of stores by Golden Goose and Twin Set.

These transformative endeavors come at a time when the travel retail market is poised for robust growth, with projections indicating an increase from $79.24 billion in 2023 to $90.41 billion in 2024—a compound annual growth rate of 14.1%.

It’s not just growth opportunities fueling this shift, however. Michael Miraflor, Chief Brand Officer at venture capital firm Hannah Grey, believes that international airports offer luxury brands an ideal moment to capture luxury buyers’ attention.

“From a practical perspective, airlines encourage international travelers to arrive at the airport several hours prior to boarding, and in lieu of lounge access, there aren't many activities to partake in; shopping makes sense,” he said. “And for the many travelers who consider international jaunts to be splurges, adding a luxury purchase for sentimental reasons may be easier to justify.”

In tandem with these sentiments is the reality that airport retail offers luxury brands a rare opportunity to connect with the younger generation of luxury buyers who feel intimidated about entering these types of physical retail stores.

“Gen Z and later—these are consumers who have deviated away from traditional brick-and-mortar retail experiences and opt for more expedient, immediate omnichannel shopping experiences,” said Yukun Bi, Chief Strategy Officer at Hylink Group. “However, inside an airport, it may be one of the first opportunities for these audiences to get to actually experience the brand and its products.”

Bi went on to explain that looking forward, airports present luxury retailers with even more opportunities for growth via innovative engagement strategies like pop-ups, citing locations like Changi Airport and the KrisFlyer lounge for Singapore Airlines, which offer dedicated pop-up spaces for brands to showcase products and seasonal items, targeting luxury travelers traveling in business or first class.

As airports worldwide continue to recalibrate their retail offerings post-Covid, luxury retailers have an opportunity to capture global travelers en route to their destinations—and a chance to capture some of that $90.41 billion market share for themselves.