Title: New 255-room sustainable hotel to open at Changi Airport Terminal 2 by 2028
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/changi-airport-terminal-2-hotel-indigo-infinity-pool-rooftop-bar-dayclub-4294241
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Fancy taking a dip in an infinity pool that offers a panoramic view of Changi Airport's runway?

Guests will be able to do so when Hotel Indigo Changi Airport opens by 2028 at Terminal 2, Changi Airport Group (CAG) and real estate group OUE Limited said on Friday (Apr 26).

The 255-room, "zero-energy" hotel, whose development and lease tender was awarded to OUE, will complement the airport's two other hotels - YOTELAIR and Crowne Plaza Changi Airport.

Hotel Indigo Changi Airport’s design will be based on a “floating forest”, with rainforest and hanging plants stretching over seven storeys.

Aside from the infinity pool, which also overlooks the airport boulevard and has a view of the skyline, guests can lounge about at the rooftop day club or have drinks at the bar.

Sustainability will be at its core and the new hotel aims to achieve "operational energy neutrality" by incorporating features like solar panels, hybrid cooling systems, naturally ventilated corridors and rainwater-harvesting technology.

They are aimed at reducing environmental impact while enhancing overall guest comfort and well-being, said CAG.

These features are also in line with the group's sustainability drive to mitigate carbon emissions, as part of Singapore’s efforts to decarbonise its aviation sector.

Changi Airport will, in 2025, see the completion of the largest single-site solar panel system in Singapore, while it aims to have all new light vehicles such vans and minibuses be electric by then.

CAG added Singapore’s tourism sector has seen a rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic and is expected to continue to attract visitors as the country remains a key destination for leisure and events.

“In 2023, Singapore visitor arrivals surged 115 per cent to 13.6 million from 6.3 million the year before, with tourism receipts estimated to be between S$24.5 billion and S$26 billion,” said the group.

“The strong tourism recovery is expected to continue, with both international visitor arrivals and tourism receipts to climb further in 2024, according to the Singapore Tourism Board.”

The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) also pointed out on Friday that hotel occupancies rose to 80 per cent in the first two months of the year, compared with 77 per cent in the previous quarter.

The impact of the Coldplay and Taylor Swift concerts in the first quarter of 2024 is, however, likely temporary in nature, and tourism-related activity should normalise after the “concert-induced windfall”, it added.