Title: Changi Airport Singapore offering up to SGD 20 for passengers travelling to/via Singapore (originating in India)
Source: Livefromalounge.com
URL: https://livefromalounge.com/changi-airport-rewards-2024/
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore’s Changi Airport is one of the best airports around the globe, and they keep offering fantastic promotions from time to time to make it even more attractive for passengers to choose Changi Airport over other options. In 2024, the airport will specifically focus on its Indian clientele with a new promotion throughout the year.

Changi’s new Shop and Dine promotion

Changi Airport, Singapore, is offering up to SGD 20 e-vouchers for customers originating in India and travelling to Singapore or just transiting via Singapore by December 31, 2024. This campaign is valid for passengers travelling from the 17 city links that Changi is directly connected to on all seven airlines. The seventeen cities in India connected include Ahmedabad, Amritsar, Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar, Chennai, Cochin, Coimbatore, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Madurai, Mumbai, Pune, Tiruchirappalli, Thiruvananthapuram and Visakhapatnam.

As a part of the offer, you can receive an SGD 10 e-voucher for a round trip to Singapore and an SGD 20 e-voucher for a return transit flight. This means,

Delhi–Singapore–Delhi itinerary is eligible for one SGD 10 Changi Rewards (CR) e-Voucher

Delhi–Singapore–Pune itinerary is eligible for one SGD 10 Changi Rewards (CR) e-Voucher

The Delhi– Singapore one-way itinerary is NOT eligible, nor is the Singapore – Delhi one-way itinerary by itself.

Passengers transiting via Changi Airport on a one-way trip must have India as their origin. This one-way transit will be eligible for one SGD 10 CR e-Voucher. This means Delhi – Singapore – Sydney itinerary is eligible for one SGD 10 CR e-Voucher; however,

Sydney – Singapore – Delhi one-way itinerary is NOT eligible.

Passengers transiting via Changi Airport on a two-way trip must have India as the point of origin and end destination. This two-way transit will be eligible for two SGD 10 CR e-Vouchers, one for the outbound leg and one for the inbound leg.

Who qualifies to receive the e-vouchers?

The vouchers are offered under the following conditions:

Booking itineraries must have India as the point of origin.

Flights between Singapore (SIN) and India must be direct flights.

Passengers must complete their journey between 1 January 2024 and 31 December 2024 (inclusive dates).

For transit passengers, at least one transit flight must be a layover within 24 hours.

Passengers with flights issued over two or more booking reference numbers are to submit just one form for their entire trip and attach all booking confirmations or e-tickets in the submission.

Only passengers above two years old will be eligible.

Passengers must submit their collection form online at least three days before departure from India.

Passengers must be above two years old to be eligible for collection of Changi e-Vouchers. Family members/travelling companions of eligible passengers above two years old but below 16 years old can collect Changi e-Vouchers on behalf of such passengers.

How do you collect the vouchers?

Changi Airport has changed the process of offering these vouchers. Instead of a physical voucher, which one had to collect at a non-descript counter, the airport will now credit these vouchers to your Changi Rewards account. The voucher will be credited to your account on the day of your arrival/transit through Singapore so you can use it on arrival or on your way back from the country. You can also collect the vouchers on behalf of your travelling party. The Changi e-Vouchers will expire by the end of the following month from the Eligible Passenger’s first arrival in Singapore.

Here is the complete process flow.

Bottomline

Changi Airport is offering up to SGD 20 per passenger for a trip made to or through Singapore, where your trip starts in India. Those visiting Singapore get an SGD 10 credit, but those using further transit and come back to India via Singapore get an SGD 20 credit to use at most shops at Changi Airport. Make sure to keep in mind to collect the vouchers and use them during your trip to/via Changi Airport.

Have you used this promotion offered by Changi Airport for Indian departures in 2024?

Liked our articles and our efforts? Please pay an amount you are comfortable with; an amount you believe is the fair price for the content you have consumed. Please enter an amount in the box below and click on the button to pay; you can use Netbanking, Debit/Credit Cards, UPI, QR codes, or any Wallet to pay. Every contribution helps cover the cost of the content generated for your benefit.

(Important: to receive confirmation and details of your transaction, please enter a valid email address in the pop-up form that will appear after you click the ‘Pay Now’ button. For international transactions, use Paypal to process the transaction.)

We are not putting our articles behind any paywall where you are asked to pay before you read an article. We are asking you to pay after you have read the article if you are satisfied with the quality and our efforts.