Title: Book now: Delta One award availability from the US to Seoul for only 130k SkyMiles
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/delta-one-award-availability-seoul/
--------------------------------------------------

Update: Some offers mentioned below are no longer available. View the current offers here.

If you're longing to explore Seoul's rich history and famous food scene, now could be the perfect time to plan a trip. Delta Air Lines has excellent award availability to the South Korean capital this summer — and you can travel in comfort in its Delta One business-class suites for only 130,000 SkyMiles.

First flagged by @FindFlightsforMe, these spacious lie-flat cabins typically cost more than 400,000 SkyMiles. Keep reading to find out how you can snag this one-way flight deal

Book Delta One award availability to Seoul this summer

Delta is currently showing plentiful award availability in Delta One, its business-class suites, from the East Coast to Seoul in July and August. We found flights from New York, Boston, Miami and Washington, D.C., for just 135,000 SkyMiles and $6 one-way. Atlanta to Seoul is even cheaper at 130,000 miles and $6 one-way.

You can fly into one of Seoul's two international airports: Incheon International Airport (ICN) or Gimpo International Airport (GMP). It's easiest to search all Seoul-area airports by typing "SEL" into the destination box.

Related: 16 ways to earn more Delta SkyMiles

To check availability across an entire month, tick the "My dates are flexible" box when you begin your search, then click "Price calendar." Be sure to also check the "Shop with miles" box and select Delta One in the fare drop-down menu.

If you're not located on the East Coast, don't feel left out. We found Delta One award availability to Seoul from Dallas, Chicago, Denver and Los Angeles for the same price. Or, if you're not near one of these hubs, you might consider booking a positioning flight.

Plus, if you hold a Delta cobranded credit card, you'll get a 15% discount on Delta-operated award flights (not including taxes and fees); this means you could pay fewer than 115,000 miles one-way.

Delta One is a fully enclosed suite in the sky with sliding doors and do-not-disturb indicators. These seats provide extra privacy along with the usual business-class perks, including lie-flat seats, gourmet food, lounge access and more. Delta One seats on long-haul flights can often go for hundreds of thousands of miles each way. So, 130,000 is a great deal.

While getting to Seoul in Delta One is a steal, coming home is a different story. Award availability from Seoul to the East Coast is currently hovering around 400,000 miles for Delta One (or 135,000 if you downgrade to economy class).

In this case, it's worth searching for your return flight on other airlines and credit card travel portals to find the best rate, in either points or cash.

Related: Should you book flights on a travel portal?

How to earn SkyMiles

Delta has several cobranded credit cards that earn SkyMiles on every purchase:

Delta SkyMiles® Blue American Express Card

Delta SkyMiles® Gold American Express Card

Delta SkyMiles® Platinum American Express Card

Delta SkyMiles® Reserve American Express Card

Delta is also a transfer partner of American Express Membership Rewards, allowing you to turn your Membership Rewards points into Delta SkyMiles at a 1:1 ratio. Note that the transfer process requires a fee of $0.0006 per point, up to a maximum of $99, which will be charged to your card account. If you don't have enough SkyMiles for redemption, this is a quick way to replenish them.

Here are some of our favorite cards for earning Amex Membership Rewards:

American Express® Gold Card

The Platinum Card® from American Express

Related: The best business-class seats to book using Amex Membership Rewards points

Bottom line

It's rare to find Delta One award availability on a flight like this for just 130,000 miles one-way — and there's no better time to spring for business-class seats than on a long-haul flight. If Seoul is on your bucket list, consider snagging this deal before it disappears.