Title: SNAPSHOT – Jetstar Asia 3K513 Singapore Changi to Bangkok Suvarnabhumi
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2024/09/16/snapshot-jetstar-asia-3k513-singapore-changi-to-bangkok-suvarnabhumi/
--------------------------------------------------

It’s time for another Snapshot, looking at the passenger experience on Jetstar Asia 3K513 between Singapore Changi to Bangkok Suvarnabhumi.

I’m sure you’re all aware of how I do this travel writing thing by now. But for those reading this for the first time, I have two major travel writing styles:

Trip Reports – These are full deep-dive reports taking you into the experience, the small things… as well as the big things!

Snapshots – These are bite-sized reviews that show you the product in some gentle headlines (and normally, only images shot on the phone)

We’re on the Snapshot in this post. I’ll be doing this series of posts a little out-of-order… mainly to entertain myself, but to concentrate on some of the more interesting bits first.

Check-in

Jetstar Asia uses Terminal 4 at Singapore Changi Airport. this can be accessed from the main terminal area and the Jewel by Shuttle bus.

Jetstar uses row 8 for its passengers to manage the check-in and baggage drop processes.

As my ticket was a complex routing. I opted for a manual check-in experience.

Boarding passes were issued for all three flights. My checked bag was also accepted for travel, with the bag being tagged all the way to Stockholm Brommna Airport.

Emigration and Security

Unlike some terminals at Changi, Emmigraton and security are done in one place (whereas security is done at the gate for some terminals at Changi).

Lounge

There was no lounge access included for this segment. thus the public area was used.

Boarding

The boarding was from Gate G12. Boarding was conducted by those having additional requirements, priority, then rows.

The aircraft

Jetstar assigned an Airbus A320ceo on this flight. This is configured in a 186 economy class configuration.

The seat

Jetstar Asia A320 is in an all-economy layout. like most low-cost carriers, the aircraft filled up, with all seats taken.

IFE And Connectivity

The window. There was no streaming service, or internet connectivity provided on this aircraft.

Food and Drink

As I was on a codeshare flight with Finnair, food and drink was provided as part of the ticket This compressed of a sandwich and a bottle of water.

A full buy-on-board offering was made during the flight.

Landing

The aircraft landed safely at Bangkok Suvarnabhumi. From landing, it taxied over to one of the many gates and arms the concourse has.

Arrivals and immigration

From the jet bridge, it was a 15-minute walk to immigration. This was passed through quickly, with a passport stamp being pressed in.

From there, I followed the signs past the luggage belts to the exit.

From there, I began the adventure that was finding the capsule hotel.

And yes, there are two of them in the airport. You just have to find them first…

More about these in the next snapshot….

Other pictures

The full review of Jetstar Asia 3K513 is coming soon.

Welcome to Economy Class and Beyond. Your no-nonsense guide to network news, honest reviews, in-depth coverage, unique research, as well as the humour and madness I only know how to deliver.

Our Social Media pool has expanded. You can find us across most networks as @economybeyond on Twitter, Mastodon, BlueSky, Threads and Instagram!

Also, remember that we are part of the BoardingArea community, bringing you the latest frequent flyer news from around the world.