Title: Ohtani and wife arrive in S Korea for Dodgers-Padres MLB opener
Source: Japan Today
URL: https://japantoday.com/category/sports/baseball-superstar-ohtani-and-his-wife-arrive-in-south-korea-for-dodgers-padres-mlb-opener
--------------------------------------------------

Please upgrade to a more modern version to fully experience JapanToday site and for security reasons

JapanToday
			Sotokanda S Bldg. 4F
					5-2-1 Sotokanda
					Chiyoda-ku
					Tokyo 101-0021
					Japan
					Tel: +81 3 5829 5900
					Fax: +81 3 5829 5919
			Email: editor@japantoday.com
			©2026
			GPlusMedia Inc.

The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.

Something lost in this, which the reporter points out but didn't overly focus on (but I certainly noticed), people in South Korea are big fans of Ohtani.  Wish the media would focus more on things like that!

If we go by looks, then the hype was clearly overhyped.

After all the speculation and conjecture, Ohtani may be a 9 but his significant other is something of a 6.

That child is going to have super genes. Way to go Ohtani-san! She's adorable!

in my opinion, a professional athlete has a better chance of support, mutual understanding, and mutual values with another (former) athlete, as compared with a glamorous model/announcer/talento/influencer or such, who mostly operates on looks.

If I were him, I would have walked beside her instead of her following two steps behind...

If I were him, I would have walked beside her instead of her following two steps behind...

Look at where the bodyguards/security guys are. They probably wanted them to walk that way.

Boy that police officer or guard with these sunglasses should be an actor, stole the shot.

That child is going to have super genes. Way to go Ohtani-san! She's adorable!

Not necessarily. Pretty much everyone said there was a 100% chance Andre Agassi and Steffi Grafs two children would dominate world tennis for many years. In reality, one played a little baseball in school. The other plays tennis as a hobby.

There are a million other important factors, not just genetics.

Anyway, all the best to "GOATANI" - as the Korean fans are calling him - on his games in SK. He sure has become a worldwide sports phenomenon!

Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.