Title: Taylor Swift-themed events in Singapore to fill in the 'blank space' before and after her concerts
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/entertainment/taylor-swift-themed-events-singapore-385891
--------------------------------------------------

We’re a couple of days away from one of the most highly-anticipated concerts in Singapore in 2024: Taylor Swift’s The Eras Tour. However, there’s no rule saying that the excitement can only start on her first show on Mar 2.

Multiple organisations and spaces here are holding Taylor Swift-themed events for fans to interact and revel in Swiftmania in the days leading up to Swift’s six shows in Singapore.

So whether you’re a local Swiftie looking to get a head start on exchanging friendship bracelets or someone from overseas trying to make new friends here, check out these Taylor Swift-themed events that will make your sparks fly.

1. THE ERAS TOUR TRAIL, LIGHT & WATER SHOW AND POP-UP STORE AT MARINA BAY SANDS

Many Swifties who are flying to Singapore for this concert have told us that they’ll be visiting Marina Bay Sands (MBS) during their stay here. Well, the good news is that there is now more incentive to visit the spot as MBS is adding a bit more style with their Taylor Swift trail, light & water show and pop-up store.

The trail comprises seven walkthrough installations across The Shoppes and Sands Expo & Convention Centre at Marina Bay Sands – all of which are inspired by Taylor Swift’s 10 eras. Here, fans can enjoy Instagram-worthy photo opportunities for free. Do note that the installations can only be accessed from 10.30am to 10pm till Mar 13.

While you’re at MBS, don’t forget to check out its signature light and water show which will have its own “Taylor’s Version”. The display will be choreographed to four of Swift’s songs and will last for about 15 minutes. Expect dancing fountain jets, vibrant visual projections, beaming lasers and synchronised lava effects.

Although the event is free, fans who want to access the lower deck of the Event Plaza to catch the show will have to register via this website to secure a spot.

Finally, fans who do not want to wait till Mar 2 to secure their merch can head down to MBS’ The Eras Tour pop-up store from Feb 29 to purchase official themed T-shirts, hoodies, water bottles, tote bags and bracelets. Do note that you’ll have to register for a time slot to buy the merchandise before coming.

However, fans who are unable to get slots to enter the pop-up store can head to the Sports Hub on selected days to buy their merch. There will be multiple booths around the space selling the likes of posters, tapestries, pullover jackets and more.

The Eras Tour trail

Date: Feb 28 to Mar 13, 10.30am to 10pm daily

Location: Across The Shoppes and Sands Expo & Convention Centre

Price: Free

The Eras Tour light & water show

Date: Feb 28 to 29, Mar 3 to 7, 8pm and 9pm | Mar 1 to 2, 8pm, 9pm and 10pm

Location: Event Plaza

Price: Free

The Eras Tour pop-up store

Date: Feb 29, Mar 1, 5, 6, 11am to 9pm | Mar 2 to 4, Mar 7 to 9, 11am to 6pm

2. BEJEWELED AT JEWEL CHANGI AIRPORT

Those who have registered for beJEWELed, the free Taylor Swift fan event organised by Jewel Changi Airport can look forward to a sing-along session as well as limited-edition friendship bracelets.

Happening at Jewel Changi Airport's Shiseido Forest Valley on Mar 1, the event will be hosted by Mediacorp personality Joakim Gomez and will feature performances by local singer Joie Tan, local band 53A and performing arts studio MADDspace.

If you missed the cut-off date to register, fret not as there are still other things to do at Jewel if you’re a Swiftie.

Fans who are travelling until Mar 15 can enjoy the following promo codes on iShopChangi:

STYLE22 - S$22 off with a minimum spend of S$79

FEELING22 - 22 per cent off with a minimum spend of S$198.90

Also, concert-goers attending any concert held at Singapore Indoor Stadium or National Stadium from Feb 15 to Mar 15 can redeem Jewel shopping and attractions vouchers, simply by showing their tickets at the Jewel Concierge Counter on the first floor.

beJEWELed

Date: Mar 1

Location: Shiseido Forest Valley, Jewel Changi Airport

Price: Free

3. SWIFTIES SEASON PRE-ERAS TOUR POOL PARTY

Skyline Luge Singapore recently unveiled its new experience Ride The Beat. Happening every Friday and Saturday from 7pm to 10pm, this ride lets thrillseekers zip down dazzling neon-lined tracks as exhilarating tracks blast in the background.

From now till Mar 10, Ride The Beat will be playing Taylor Swift’s hits as racers pretend they’re in a getaway car. Furthermore, those who purchase the Ride The Beat 3 Ride Combo will be entitled to complimentary cheese fries, courtesy of Shake Shack. Tickets can be purchased here.

Taylor Swift songs at Night Luge: Ride The Beat

Date: Till Mar 10, 7pm to 10pm

Location: Skyline Luge Singapore, Sentosa

Price: S$36

8. TAYLOR SWIFT-THEMED PHOTOBOOTHS

Multiple photo studios in Singapore will have Taylor Swift-themed photobooths and frames for Swifties to live out their wildest dreams.

Organised by online store From The Vault SG and Main Street Commissary, a cafe near Little India, Fever Dream High is a Taylor Swift-themed showcase featuring a friendship bracelet-making station and displays of custom-made cassettes and artwork inspired by Swift’s lyrics. Fans can also head to a central installation at the cafe to leave notes about the impact Taylor Swift's music has had on their lives.

You can also sip on themed drinks including You Need To Calm Down, a butterfly pea lemonade, and Shake It Off, a sparkling water drink topped with lychee and pink cream.

Fever Dream High

Date: Mar 1 to 31, 9am to 5pm daily

Location: 81 Rowell Rod, Singapore 208014

Price: Free admission

Mediacorp Class 95 and 987FM are each giving away 15 pairs of VIP 3 tickets to Taylor Swift concerts, courtesy of UOB Cards. The contest runs until Mar 1 on 987FM and Mar 6 on Class 95. Stay tuned to both radio stations for details.