Title: Singapore Airlines becomes first international airline to operate at upcoming 24-hour Western Sydney airport
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/travel/singapore-airlines-western-sydney-international-airport-2026-395671
--------------------------------------------------

Construction of the Western Sydney International Airport is said to be "more than 80 per cent progressed". Other airlines that are set to operate out of the new airport include Qantas and Jetstar.

In a statement to the press, WSI CEO Simon Hickey elaborated on the arrangement with SIA, saying: "This inaugural international airline arrangement is a fantastic milestone for Western Sydney International Airport and reflects the positive response we’ve had from airlines, especially in regard to the unprecedented opportunities our 24-hour capability unlocks.

“Western Sydney International Airport’s late-night departure capacity, for instance, could allow Singapore Airlines’ business travellers to finish a full day’s work in Sydney, take an overnight flight and arrive in Singapore before their first morning meeting the very next day."

He also highlighted that Singapore Airlines passengers can enjoy a "seamless transfer experience" through the airport's "state-of-the-art baggage system and efficient design, including five-minute taxi times on the tarmac".

Louis Arul, Singapore Airlines' regional vice president (South West Pacific) added: "This agreement reflects our commitment to enhancing network connectivity for travellers to and from Sydney, and providing additional services for Australia, which is a major market for the Singapore Airlines Group."

In a separate statement to CNA Lifestyle, an SIA spokesperson said: "Singapore Airlines is in discussions with Western Sydney International Airport regarding our flight operations, and we will share more details at the appropriate time. SIA routinely reviews our network and adjusts our capacity to match demand. Australia is an important market for the SIA Group, and the demand for air travel to and from Sydney remains robust."

Singapore Airlines currently operates four flights to Sydney Kingsford Smith Airport from Changi Airport every day, while Scoot operates 10 flights a week.