Title: Irishman in Singapore: I wondered if I was foolish to emigrate in my 50s. But I feel more alive than ever
Source: The Irish Times
URL: https://www.irishtimes.com/abroad/2025/01/23/experience-and-the-wisdom-that-comes-with-it-are-highly-valued-in-asian-culture/
--------------------------------------------------

In 2017, after over 30 happy years of public service, something waylaid me, almost destroyed my confidence and left me, for the first time in my life, unhappy in my job.

Educational psychologists are always in demand but I did not have the confidence to start looking around at that point.

Suddenly, fate intervened. Out of the blue, my partner was offered a position as professor at the National University of Singapore and he asked how I would feel about upping sticks and moving from Dublin to South East Asia.

Both in our early 50s, we had been fortunate in never being forced to emigrate, as many of our contemporaries were in the 1980s. Were we foolish to consider it at this stage in our lives?

Singapore does not recognise same-sex civil partnerships, so I would have to look for my own employment pass. But first, I needed to find employment. I emailed my hastily-prepared CV to five psychology practices found though Google, was interviewed by four (on Skype, remember that?). I was offered three jobs.

What I had not realised was that experience, and the wisdom that comes with it, are highly valued in Asian culture. It was the boost I needed and literally lifted me out of a very dark place (I think my late father was looking after me from above.)

Cut to 2018, two men, and a sedated dog, board a flight to a gleaming metropolis, called the “Little Red Dot”, roughly the size of Co Louth with a population of 5.5 million.

We settled in quickly, and any concerns I had about practising as a psychologist in this multiracial, multi-ethnic city state dissolved quickly. Children, schools and families are essentially the same the world over and one learns to practise in a culturally sensitive way very quickly.

Singapore is like New York – you master your brief quickly or you do not survive. Thankfully, I built up a good professional reputation rapidly and formed good relationships with international schools, of which there are many in Singapore.

Referrals came quite quickly and I was established without much delay, notwithstanding the pandemic in 2020. Irish professionals are highly regarded here, especially occupational therapists, speech and language therapists and physiotherapists.

I think I now realise why – as a race – we Irish undervalue the so-called “soft skills” that develop from operating in a small country, where we treat each other as neighbours, even in the professional setting. As well as being well-trained, we generally present with a kind, informal sensibility that is appreciated here.

I deliberately chose to work in a Singaporean-owned practice in order to avoid operating purely in an expat ghetto, which can happen. As a result, I have quite a few Singaporean clients, as well as Australians, Americans, Europeans, South Asians and others.

I have learned that, as an experienced, middle-aged Irish psychologist with an increasingly grey head, parents and children seem to trust my judgment and heed my advice. When I came here, I honestly did not feel I had anything of value to offer any more. I am happier and more fulfilled professionally now than ever.

Singapore’s low income tax was a revelation. When I received my first tax bill, I contacted the inland revenue authority, worried they had made a mistake and I would end up owing thousands in back tax. But there was no mistake.

Having paid almost half my salary in tax and insurance for most of my life, it was astonishing to me to see little difference between gross and net salary amounts. It makes it easy to save for retirement, although I now envisage working longer that I would have if I had stayed in Ireland; and not because I have to, but because I still enjoy my job and derive great fulfilment from it.

Apart from work, Singapore has a lot to offer – every type of cuisine is available and it is a melting pot of cultures where you will find a mosque, Hindu temple, Taoist shrine and church, all on the same street.

There is a small but vibrant Irish community here and, with a friend who worked in the Irish embassy, we have organised some Pop-Up Gaeltacht events over the years that have grown in popularity. Along with well-established Irish games and dance, it is now possible to hear our language spoken in the tropical heat.

I recall the late, lamented Nuala O’Faolain writing something about ageing backwards when she landed in Manhattan and, in a sense, I now understand what she meant. When I land in Changi Airport, having had a lovely holiday in Ireland, I find myself feeling younger and more vibrant than before.

This is certainly true when I compare myself to the person I was six years ago, before I believed any of this was possible.