Title: Singapore Airlines to fly to London Gatwick
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2023/12/18/singapore-airlines-to-fly-to-london-gatwick/
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore Airlines is adding to its London operational portfolio, with plans to operate flights to London Gatwick Airport.

Singapore Airlines Airbus A350 at Changi Airport – Image, Economy Class and Beyond

The airline will add a five-times-a-week service, based on the following timetable:

SQ310 DEPART SIN 23:55 ARRIVE LGW 06:25+1 SQ309 DEPART 10:25 ARRIVE SING 06:20+1 Commences 21st June 2024 (SIN) 22nd June 2024 (LGW) SQ310 operates on Mondays, Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays. SQ309 operates on Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays Booked Equipment: Singapore Airlines Airbus A350 (Long Haul Vairent)

The airline will utilise an Airbus A350-900 in the airline’s Long Haul variant. They feature 253 seats in three cabin classes: 42 in Business Class, 24 in Premium Economy Class, and 187 in Economy Class.

Timings at Singapore are optimised for those who wish to connect to Singapore Airlines and Scoot flights to destinations across South East Asia, Australia, and New Zealand.

In Quotes

Mr Dai Haoyu, Acting Senior Vice President of Marketing Planning, at Singapore Airlines, said:

“London has always been a very important market for the Singapore Airlines Group. With the introduction of this new service to London’s Gatwick Airport, Singapore Airlines’ customers will have an additional flight to choose from when flying between Singapore and the UK. It also opens up additional travel options to other points in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.”

Mr Stewart Wingate, Chief Executive Officer, London Gatwick, said:

“Renowned as one of the world’s best carriers, we are delighted to welcome Singapore Airlines to London Gatwick. It showcases the high regard in which Gatwick is held, and connecting to the impressive Changi Airport is a big boost for the whole region. For passengers across London and the South East, the new route will provide huge connectivity potential, not only to the fantastic destination of Singapore, but more widely across South East Asia, Australia and New Zealand. With significant increases in trade between the UK and Singapore in recent years, the service also provides exciting opportunities for local and regional businesses.

“Passengers arriving from Singapore will benefit from London Gatwick’s outstanding connections, with our newly redesigned train station providing direct access to the heart of London in less than 30 minutes, alongside services to world-famous cities such as Cambridge and the UK’s beautiful south coast.”

Building out capacity beyond Heathrow

London Heathrow remains a core focus of the airline, with them operating four times a day out of the main London hub. However, capacity there is constrained – as much as the airline would like to add another flight, there are not enough slots allocated to allow this.

With the five extra flights a week to Gatwick, the airline will offer 33 flights a week to the London area, opening up a lot of connections for those who live in South East (Kent, Sussex and Surry), without having to go all the way to Heathrow.

Singapore Airlines has capacity outside London, with its five services a week (which has a fifth freedom flight onto Houston for part of the timetable).

With the airline boosting up to 14 European destinations, it seems they are trying to increase the passenger flow after a few stunted years.

Welcome to Economy Class and Beyond. Your no-nonsense guide to network news, honest reviews, in-depth coverage, unique research, as well as the humour and madness I only know how to deliver.

Our Social Media pool has expanded. You can find us across most networks as @economybeyond on Twitter, Mastodon, BlueSky, Threads and Instagram!

Also, remember that we are part of the BoardingArea community, bringing you the latest frequent flyer news from around the world.