Title: Blackpink Singer Jennie Passes Jung Kook In Hot 100 History
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2024/04/17/blackpink-singer-jennie-passes-jung-kook-in-hot-100-history/
--------------------------------------------------

Jennie’s breakout solo smash “One of the Girls” has been making history on the Billboard charts for months now. The cut broke records and managed incredible feats on seemingly every tally it reached. Months after the single first arrived, it’s still going strong on the Hot 100, and it earns yet another spot in the chart annals.

“One of the Girls” has now lived on the Hot 100 for 16 weeks. That’s one of the longest stays of all time for any tune by a South Korean musical act. When that group is narrowed down slightly to include only solo musicians from that nation, Jennie’s performance becomes historic.

With 16 weeks now earned on the Hot 100, “One of the Girls” ranks as the fourth-longest-charting hit in the history of the tally, and it holds that distinction alone. This placement is when taking into account only solo artists from South Korea.

Last week, “One of the Girls” already ranked as one of the fourth-longest-charting tunes by a South Korean solo musician in the history of the Hot 100, though it shared that showing with other tracks. Psy’s “Gentleman” and Jung Kook and Latto’s “Seven” both disappeared from the chart after 15 frames. Now, Jennie has broken her tie with those two tunes.

Psy’s “Gangnam Style” holds as the track by a South Korean solo musician to rack up the most weeks on the Hot 100. That smash leads by a sizable margin, as it lived on the tally for 31 frames. No other tune has managed 20—at least not yet.

The two tracks that appear between Psy and Jennie are both by Jung Kook. The BTS star has scored a number of big wins on the Hot 100, and most of them have lived on the roster for months.

Jung Kook’s solo single “Standing Next to You” recently departed the Hot 100 after 19 weeks. More than a year ago, he and Charlie Puth kept their collaboration “Left and Right” on the tally for 17 frames–just one more than “One of the Girls,” at least for the time being.

This time around, “One of the Girls” improves its standing, now that the Hot 100 isn’t quite as inundated with songs from Beyoncé’s new album Cowboy Carter. The tune, which credits Jennie alongside The Weeknd and Lily Rose Depp, lifts from No. 85 to No. 76.