Title: Top 20 Most Valuable Data Companies in the World
Source: Yahoo Entertainment
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/top-20-most-valuable-data-192010560.html
--------------------------------------------------

In this industry-analysis article, we will take a look at the Top 20 Most Valuable Data Companies in the World. You can skip our detailed analysis of the data industry, and go directly to the Top 5 Most Valuable Data Companies in the World.

The advent of advanced technology has revolutionized the way we live. If we take a cursory look at our daily routine, we will see that almost every major activity in the day has some connection with technology. The move into the digital era has further integrated people globally and led to a mass production of information regarding one’s personal data, preferences and behavior. My neighbor might not know me well enough, but my smartphone sure does. It is thus, no wonder that the concept of maximum exploitation of digitally available information took root. Both smart data companies and businesses understood the commercial value to be gained from this opportunity and acted accordingly. Within a short span of time, many valuable data companies have now dotted the planet and they cater to all kinds of industries. Netflix, for instance, is bringing entertainment to us through a valuable data company in the world-- Teradata Corporation's (NYSE: TDC) Hadoop connector.

What is a data company and why businesses need them?

In this era, every company is operating with the help of technology. In fact, every company has now essentially become a data company. It is primarily because in this data-driven world, businesses are creating and storing large amounts of data on various aspects of their work. This includes information on their products, performance and employees etc. However, not every company has the ability, infrastructure or the expertise to sift through and analyze this plethora of material. Here, the most valuable data companies, excelling in providing latest software and technologies, like Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, come into focus. In almost every industry-- be that healthcare, financial, marketing, defense, public or private--big data analytics have become most valuable for decision-making.

Sit in any business class lecture and you will hear that every firm's objective is profit maximization. With the exponential technological growth witnessed in this era, firms must understand the need of their customers and innovate to compete in the industry. It is because of this that industries like fast food chains, the least linked with data science, are actually the most data-driven. This industry is commonly associated with a low-cost product and multiple franchise outlets, spread either nationally or internationally. Data-analysis tools and techniques can be useful in gaining insights into industry trends for specific countries, customer psyche and overall performance. Informed decisions can then be made on such basis, making profit maximization as well as customer satisfaction more achievable. Therefore, the role of valuable data companies becomes even more crucial for all kinds of businesses.

Industry Analysis of Data Market

The global Data and Analytics market value, in 2022, was reported at $30 billion, per Precedence Research. However, what is astounding is the expected growth for the industry in the coming years. With a projected CAGR of 29.4% in the years from 2023-2032, the global market would reach a value of $393.95 billion at the end of the forecast period -- 2032.

In the year 2022, North America was seen to hold a larger share of the market -- 45%. This can be attributed mostly to the infrastructure abilities of the region, which facilitates the use of latest technological advancements. Nevertheless, Asian Pacific markets are also poised to grow at an unprecedented rate in the coming years.

Latest News in the Data Company Market

A good news for small and medium-sized firms is the introduction of a novel approach called generative business intelligence (BI). This latest innovation is expected to minimize the cost of investing in analytics for small enterprises amidst their limited resources. With little expensive skilled help required in analyzing big data, these businesses would then be able to profit from deep insights in which large companies already have the edge.

Another interesting news is the collaboration between IBM (NYSE: IBM) and Casper Labs. This partnership is meant to develop a new Casper Labs solution that would allow use of block-chain in such a way that companies would be able to achieve more transparency and auditability in their AI systems.

Top 20 Most Valuable Data Companies in the World

Methodology

In this article, we have listed the 20 most valuable data companies in the world. We based our selection on their market capitalization as of the writing of this piece. The top 20 most valuable data companies in the world are listed below in ascending order of market cap.

By the way, Insider Monkey is an investing website that uses a consensus approach to identify the best stock picks of more than 900 hedge funds investing in US stocks. The website tracks the movement of corporate insiders and hedge funds. Our top 10 consensus stock picks of hedge funds outperformed the S&P 500 stock index by more than 140 percentage points over the last 10 years (see the details here). So, if you are looking for the best stock picks to buy, you can benefit from the wisdom of hedge funds and corporate insiders.

Top 20 Most Valuable Data Companies In The World

20. Workiva Inc. (NYSE: WK)

Market Capitalization-- $5.151 Billion

Workiva Inc. (NYSE: WK) is a global cloud-based software (SaaS) company. It enables companies to “power transparent reporting” by using connected data and automated reporting across several departments like accounting and finance, audit, risk and compliance, ESG, and sustainability as well as legal. Their software is built to allow ease in complex and manual reporting by reorganizing processes, connecting data and teams, and providing clarity, all in one place. Thus, it is no surprise that this company occupies a place in the list for the most valuable data companies in the world.

Back in 2023, Workiva Inc. (NYSE: WK) launched AI features to its cloud platform. It is aimed at ensuring a variety of benefits, including help in drafting documents, summarizing content, and brainstorming. Furthermore, they believe this will allow employees to devote more time to “greater value-add tasks”.

19. Genpact Limited (NYSE: G)

Market Capitalization-- $6.32 Billion

Genpact Limited (NYSE: G) is a global professional service firm for Finance and Accounting; Collections and Customer Service; Insurance; Supply chain and Procurement; Analytics; Enterprise Application; IT Infrastructure, and Management. They cater to more than 30 countries around the world. In 2022, their annual revenues amounted to $4.37 billion. It is one of the largest companies and Genpact Limited (NYSE: G) has also been included in the Forbes list of "World's Best Management Consulting Firms 2023”.

In July, 2023, the company announced an expansion in their partnership with o9 solutions for the use of generative AI. This was done in order to help companies manage ongoing supply chain disruptions.

18. Informatica Inc. (NYSE: INFA)

Market Capitalization-- $8.431 Billion

Informatica Inc. (NYSE: INFA) is an American Enterprise Cloud Data Management leader, which strives to endow businesses with the ability to achieve excellent outcomes by using data and technologies like AI. Their AI-powered Intelligent Data Management Cloud is an impressive tool that businesses can utilize to achieve competitive edge. Their core products consist of enterprise cloud data management and data integration. Their data integration software and services can prove advantageous for multifarious businesses, industries and government organizations like telecommunication, health care, financial and insurance companies.

Informatica Inc. (NYSE: INFA) strengthened their strategic partnership with Databricks by launching New Unity Catalog Integrations. They believe this would positively impact their customers by giving them the opportunity to integrate their important data into Databricks and turn it into a ready-to-use AI powered data. Informatica Inc. (NYSE: INFA) also recently acquired Privitar to increase their data management access. Their efficiency and market growth makes them one of the biggest data companies in the world.

17. Elastic N.V (NYSE: ESTC)

Market Capitalization-- $11.607 Billion

Elastic N.V (NYSE: ESTC) is an American-Dutch search company that offers solutions for secure search, analysis, and visualization of complex information. Their portfolio comprises Enterprise search, observability, security, elastic stack, SaaS, and orchestration. Their products are viable for many industries including automotive, education, financial, government, defense, e-commerce, and technology. In order to provide maximum application to their clients, the company collaborates with cloud providers, systems integrator, channel partners, referral partners, OEM and MSP.

Elastic N.V’s (NYSE: ESTC) venture into AI has been met with enthusiasm by their customers and the company hopes that this would allow them to create a niche in AI. The company has also made an agreement to acquire Opster.

16. Tech Mahindra

Market Capitalization-- $15.54 Billion

Tech Mahindra is an Indian multinational information technology company. Some of their services include infrastructure and cloud services, experience design services, and business process services. In addition, they are also proficient in new technologies like AI, block chain and internet of things. The company’s personnel are aware of the role that AI and other technologies can play in satisfying customer needs. The Chief Marketing Officer, Peeyush Dubey, plans to implement an AI-driven marketing strategy as a means to building more interactive personalized relations with their clients.

Tech Mahindra provides services to numerous industries, including health care, financial as well as manufacturing, and retail.

15. HP Enterprise (NYSE: HPE)

Market Capitalization-- $19.422 Billion

HP Enterprise (NYSE: HPE) is an American, multinational information technology company. Their products aim to present solutions to computing, networking, services, software, storage, and supercomputing. Popular product brands like HPE Aruba Networking and HPE ProLiant Computing, among others, have effectively resulted in making HP Enterprise (NYSE: HPE) one of the most valuable data companies in the world.

The company is also continuously ensuring to incorporate any new technological advancements. HP Enterprise (NYSE: HPE) plans to purchase Juniper Networks, Inc. (NYSE: JNPR), mainly to upgrade their Artificial intelligence services.

14. Splunk Inc. (NASDAQ: SPLK)

Market Capitalization-- $25.718 Billion

Splunk Inc. (NASDAQ: SPLK) is yet another American software company. It is a leading cybersecurity icon in searching, monitoring, and analyzing machine-generated big data by using a web-style interface. It allows their customers to gather pertinent insight from a large data set, in an efficient manner. Their technological solutions through SAP, Azure, and AWS etc. can be applied in diverse industries like financial, manufacturing, public, communications, retail and online services.

The significance of Splunk Inc. (NASDAQ: SPLK), as an important valuable data company, is further cemented by the recent move of Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSCO). The objective of the deal is to solidify their cybersecurity and AI abilities.

13. MongoDB Inc. (NASDAQ: MDB)

Market Capitalization-- $29.119 Billion

MongoDB Inc. (NASDAQ: MDB) is a document-based database. With MongoDB Atlas, developers can store data as JSON-like objects and it also allows the use of languages and tools that one prefers. It is trusted by various popular names like Forbes, Ebay Inc. (NASDAQ: EBAY) and Coinbase Global Inc. (NASDAQ: COIN).

MongoDB Inc. (NASDAQ: MDB) continues to make strides in the industry. Their initiative for taking over the development of the community-driven MongoDB Integration for Laravel framework is good news. Furthermore, their partnership with Patronus AI, to provide LLM evaluation and testing to enterprise customers can also help expedite AI adoption.

12. Capgemini

Market Capitalization-- $35.09 Billion

Capgemini is a French multinational global leader in consulting, digital transformation, and information technology services company. They constantly update their portfolio and are currently providing various services like cloud, cybersecurity, data and artificial intelligence, intelligent industry etc.

Their latest upgrade is a collaboration with AWS to enable broad enterprise generative AI adoption. In addition to this, is their announcement that Capgemini and Orange’s Microsoft- focused sovereign cloud venture, Bleu, has been launched. It is, therefore, no surprise that they are one of the most valuable data companies in the world.

11. Palantir Technologies Inc. (NYSE: PLTR)

Market Capitalization-- $35.729 Billion

Palantir Technologies Inc. (NYSE: PLTR) is a public US company with specialization in big data analytics. They build software that allows companies to create and govern artificial intelligence for both public and private networks. They aim to help various sectors through their software, like health care, national security, energy, finance, and many more. The list of products include Palantir Foundry, Palantir Gotham and Palantir Apollo.

10. VMware

Market Capitalization-- $61.52 Billion

VMware is a leading American provider of multi-cloud services for all apps. This is conducive towards allowing digital innovation with enterprise control. VMware can be run on any cloud. For instance, Alibaba, Azure, Google, IBM etc. Their services can be utilized by state and local government, department of defense, federal government as well as financial services, and healthcare providers.

9. Snowflake Inc. (NYSE: SNOW)

Market Capitalization-- $61.753 Billion

Snowflake Inc. (NYSE: SNOW) is a software company that delivers the Data Cloud. This is a global network where organizations can find, securely share, and run analytics on data. They specialize in many aspects, for example, data warehousing, marketing analytics, data engineering, data science, and many more. They also have a long list of industries and departments where their services can be very helpful, some of which includes technology, telecommunication, finance, and marketing. The company provides solutions through AWS, Microsoft Azure and Google cloud.

8. The International Business Machines Corporation (NYSE:IBM)

Market Capitalization-- $151.436 Billion

IBM (NYSE: IBM) is more than a century old, American, multinational technology corporation. It is a global technology innovator, generating advancements in AI, automation and hybrid cloud solutions. Numerous data centers, spread across the globe, it provides companies with the most open and secure public cloud. Businesses in 20 different industries can accrue benefits from using their services. It is, therefore, no wonder that its among the most valuable data companies in the world.

In their desire to enhance the artificial intelligence and hybrid cloud offerings of the company, IBM (NYSE: IBM), announced last month their intention to buy Software AG’s StreamSets and webMethods platforms.

7. SAP SE (NYSE: SAP)

Market Capitalization-- $183.175 Billion

SAP SE (NYSE: SAP) is a German multinational software company. It is one of the most well-known software providers in the world and has a huge role in the big data market. It is also one of the most valuable IT companies in the world. Their SAP S/4HANA Cloud is a complete, modular and award-winning ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) software. Their AI copilot, Joule, is yet another of their great achievements. The company is trusted by various other famous corporations around the universe, which includes Changi airport group, Pfizer Inc. (NYSE: PFE) and Nestle, among others.

Revolutionizing businesses with technology, SAP SE (NYSE: SAP), days ago, announced new AI additions to their supply-chain management and order orchestration offerings. This is aimed at allowing retailers to work with “highly automated” replenishment processes. Moreover, the company also announced a collaboration with IBM (NYSE: IBM), regarding development of new AI solutions for consumer packaged goods and retail industries.

6. Accenture Plc (NYSE: ACN)

Market Capitalization-- $221.642 Billion

Accenture Plc (NYSE: ACN) is an Irish-American professional services company that has shown prowess in digital, cloud, and security areas. It is a Fortune-500 firm, offering services in strategy, management, digital, technology and operations consulting. Big names in the technology service ecosystem like Adobe (NASDAQ: ADBE), Alibaba (NYSE: BABA) and Dell (NYSE: DELL) are partners with the company.

In order to help organizations protect themselves against cybersecurity issues, Accenture Plc (NYSE: ACN), has partnered with SandboxAQ for AI driven data solutions. Their acquisition of Impendi is yet another attempt to cater to the needs of one of their businesses-- the private equity firms. This action would allow greater ease for equity firms in making procurement and sourcing decisions.

Click to continue reading and see our Top 5 Most Valuable Data Companies in the World.

Suggested Articles:

13 Most Advanced Countries in Electronics

12 Best Artificial Intelligence Stocks To Buy for 2024 According to Financial Media

13 Most Advanced Countries in Agriculture Technology

Disclosure: None. 20 Most Valuable Data Companies in the World is originally published on Insider Monkey.