Title: Air Canada Launches Service to Singapore and Boosts Asia-Pacific Route Network
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-canada-launches-service-to-singapore-and-boosts-asia-pacific-route-network/
--------------------------------------------------

2.2K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Air Canada announced today that it is boosting its Asia-Pacific network next month through summer 2024. This includes a new route to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) from Vancouver International Airport (YVR) starting next April.

Expanded Service from Vancouver International Airport (YVR)

Air Canada’s flights between North America and Asia will increase frequency starting next month. This includes:

Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) (11 weekly flights between December 13th and February 29th for Lunar New Year and then 10x weekly March 1st to October 26th)

Bangkok Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) (4x weekly flights increased to daily from January 8th to February 28th)

Shanghai Pudong International Airport (PVG) (4x weekly flights. Upgauged to Boeing 777-300ER from December 1st to March 30th)

Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) (4x weekly flights starting on April 3rd)

Osaka International Airport (KIX) (3x weekly flights begin on May 1st; shifts to 4x weekly on June 17th)

Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT) (Daily flights. Upgauged to Boeing 777-300ER until April 30th)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (Daily flights. Upgauged to Boeing 777-300ER for the summer)

Expanded Service from Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ)

Flights from Air Canada’s largest hub include:

Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT) (Daily flights. Upgauged to Boeing 777-300ER for the summer)

Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND) (Daily flights. Upgauged to Boeing 777-300ER for the winter)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (Daily flights; year-round)

Expanded Service from Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport (YUL)

Additional flights include:

Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT) (Daily flights. Upgauged to Boeing 777-300ER for the summer)

Mark Galardo, Air Canada’s Executive Vice President of Revenue and Network Planning said:

Air Canada’s Asia services continue to reflect strong demand and we are boosting capacity to this geographic area as we deploy our international diversification strategy. This winter we are pleased to offer up to 57 flights per week between Canada and Asia, and up to 64 flights per week next summer. Air Canada will have up to double daily flights to Hong Kong and larger aircraft operating to Shanghai during the December holiday and Lunar New Year travel periods. Capacity to Japan increases by 96% this winter compared to last year. Next spring, seasonal Osaka flights resume earlier and larger aircraft will operate to Narita and Seoul.”

Anthony’s Take: After the travel boom across the Atlantic, carriers now have their eyes set on Asia. American carriers have boosted their schedules for 2024 and now Air Canada has as well.

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.