Title: How South Korea has become the new face of beauty tourism
Source: National Geographic
URL: https://www.nationalgeographic.com/travel/article/how-south-korea-has-become-the-best-destination-for-beauty-tourism
--------------------------------------------------

From K-dramas and K-pop to food, fashion and film, South Korea’s cultural exports have reshaped global taste over the past decade. The so-called ‘Hallyu’, or ‘K-wave’, accelerated during the pandemic as audiences around the world streamed Korean shows in record numbers. Flawless complexions became part of the allure, sparking curiosity about the skincare behind the look.

What began as a niche interest has become a global obsession. Known as K-beauty, South Korea’s skincare and makeup industry is now defined less by quirky ingredients and cutesy packaging than by sleek, clinical-grade formulations promising the coveted ‘glass skin’.

Fuelled by innovation and a relentless focus on results, South Korea’s approach to skincare has become one of its most powerful economic and cultural exports. Last year, the country surpassed France for the first time to become the leading exporter of cosmetics to the US, according to a report by Bloomberg — a milestone that confirmed K-beauty’s shift from cult favourite to global powerhouse.

For ardent enthusiasts, however, simply adding another serum to their bathroom shelf is no longer enough. Instead, they’re travelling to South Korea to experience the treatments, clinics and rituals that have cemented the country’s reputation as the world’s beauty capital.

According to the Korean Ministry of Health, 1.2 million people travelled to South Korea in 2024 for aesthetic reasons. This growing influx of beauty-focused visitors is projected to generate £21.13bn by 2030, a boom that’s firmly caught the government’s attention. Aesthetic tourism has become a key cultural asset and growth driver, and, as such, is actively supported through visa assistance, tax incentives and national promotion. President Lee Jae-myung has even named K-beauty as one of the nation’s ‘big five’ soft power pillars, part of a plan to make South Korea one of the world’s top cultural powers by the end of the decade. So, what’s inspiring the global glow-chasing pilgrimage and where should you go?

A competitive market

“The nation’s capital, Seoul, is perhaps the best regarded for aesthetic skin treatments because of its advanced expertise, rapid adoption of the latest technologies and ability to give customers strong results at a reasonable cost,” says Shin Young Park, CEO of Skin Angella Clinic in the capital.

Indeed, the city lives up to its reputation. Packed with clinics, Seoul offers travellers treatments that can be 30-50% cheaper than in the US or Europe without compromising on quality. In such a competitive market, high standards are simply the norm, making the city a playground for beauty devotees.

Navigating the options can be overwhelming, which is where beauty concierge services like Aneue come in. “With so many clinics offering similar treatments, specialisation is what sets doctors and practices apart,” says Jennifer Seo, founder of Aneue. She works with clients from around the world, helping them find the latest treatments and bespoke wellness experiences in Seoul.

Among visitors, the most sought-after treatments include skin-brightening lasers, lifting and sculpting facials and skin boosters such as Rejuran, a non-surgical treatment in which polynucleotides derived from salmon DNA are used to rejuvenate the skin. Known for improving texture while stimulating collagen production, it’s one of the innovations that’s helped cement Seoul’s reputation as a global beauty destination.

Beauty beyond skincare

Yet treatments are only part of the story. At the heart of Seoul’s beauty scene are the products that underpin these clinics. In one of the world’s most competitive cosmetics markets, brands compete not only on innovation but also customer experience, creating striking flagship stores that blur the line between shop and beauty laboratory. For example, at Amore Seongsu — an immersive beauty store in Seoul’s trendy Seongsu neighbourhood — you can have your skin analysed with AI to create a custom serum. There’s also the option to have a robot colour match your perfect foundation shade and formulate a personalised BB cream.

And South Korea’s beauty boom doesn’t stop at skincare. In Seoul, the same innovation also extends to haircare and body treatments. Located on Myeongdong Street, Juno Hair has a signature scalp and hair ritual made up of no fewer than 18 steps. Think deep cleansing, exfoliation, massage, steam therapy and relaxation rituals, all performed by a specialist.

“Many overseas visitors know K-beauty treatments, but Korean scalp care is still relatively new outside Asia,” says branch director Bong Goo. “This treatment focuses not just on scalp health, but also on stress relief and wellbeing. It’s both a beauty treatment and a uniquely Korean cultural experience.”

(Wellness travel in 2026—here's what's trending.)

A smart start

Before embarking on a K-beauty pilgrimage, a little planning goes a long way. Start by deciding where your interests lie — are you keen to focus on skincare, haircare, body treatments or perhaps all three? Once decided, set a budget and scan reputable clinics and reviews. Many practices specialise in certain treatments depending on the doctor’s expertise, and the best clinics will offer a one-on-one consultation with a dermatologist to tailor procedures to your skin type.

That said, half the fun lies in dipping into the sheer range of experiences on offer. K-pop idol makeovers at Hautbeaute in Cheongdam and personalised skin tone analyses at Cocory in Hongdae sit alongside perfume-making at Proust, tucked within the traditional Bukchon Hanok Village. Together, they capture the spirit of K-beauty — playful, precise and endlessly inventive.