Title: Baggage blunder forces IndiGo's Bengaluru flight to return to Singapore Changi airport
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/baggage-blunder-forces-indigos-bengaluru-flight-to-return-to-singapore-changi-airport/articleshow/104530294.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

An IndiGo flight from Singapore to Bengaluru had to return to Singapore after the airline's service partner failed to offload baggage from an international flight. IndiGo apologized for the inconvenience caused to passengers and assured them that they were kept informed and provided with refreshments during the delay. This incident follows another oversight in Istanbul, where the airline forgot to put an elderly couple on their connecting flight to India.

An IndiGo flight bound for Bengaluru from Singapore had to return to Singapore's Changi airport due to a baggage error. The service partner of India's biggest airline had failed to offload baggage from an international flight. IndiGo, in response to the incident, acknowledged the baggage error and attributed it to a service partner's oversight at Singapore airport. In a statement, the airline expressed regret for the inconvenience caused to passengers and assured them that they were kept informed and provided with refreshments during the delay.

Passenger Arvin Sahni, wrote on social media: "Congratulations on achieving the impossible. Singapore-Bengaluru flight at 5.40 am made to turn back coz you guys forgot to offload luggage from incoming flight."

Another user in a social media post said: "Horrible mismanagement at Singapore airport! 6E1006 was in the air for 1.5 hours, from SIN to BLR,l anded back in Singapore because you all mixed up baggage of various flights!!! Passengers in an early morning flight, already sleep deprived are being harassed."

"We acknowledge the baggage error on part of our service partner’s at Singapore airport with respect to flight 6E 1006 operating from Singapore to Bengaluru due to which the flight returned to origin. The passengers were kept informed of the delay and served refreshments. We sincerely regret the inconvenience caused to the passengers," IndiGo told Times of India.

This latest oversight comes on the heels of a another incident in Istanbul, where the airline forgot to put an elderly couple on their connecting flight to India.. With its fleet of 330 aircraft, IndiGo operates over 1900 daily flights, connecting 83 domestic destinations and 32 international destinations. In the past six months alone, IndiGo has unveiled over 20 international flights through codeshare partnerships and direct route expansion. The airline launched added new destinations like Jakarta, Nairobi, Almaty, Tashkent, Baku, and Tbilisi by foraying in Central Asia and Africa while bolstering its presence in Southeast Asia.

Live Events

IndiGo has further increased its reach across the globe with strategic codeshare partnerships with Turkish Airlines and British Airways.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless