Title: Better planes, seats, connectivity: Air India gets ready for long haul
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/better-planes-seats-connectivity-air-india-gets-ready-for-long-haul/articleshow/117180225.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Air India aims to reclaim customers from Middle Eastern airlines by offering better planes, more premium seats, and convenient connections. The airline is restructuring its long-haul schedules to increase transfers at Indian airports and leveraging Singapore Airlines' network to enhance connectivity, especially to Europe, North America, and Australia.

New Delhi: Better planes, more premium seats and convenient flight connections—those are the focus of Air India as it embarks on a transformation to win back customers it lost to West Asian rivals over the years.

“Currently, foreign airlines dominate the international long-haul market from India with over 80% share. Almost 85% of the connecting traffic from India travelling to Europe, North America and Australia connect at non-Indian airport hubs like those in the Middle East,” Nipun Aggarwal, chief commercial officer at Air India, told ET. “We want to change this scenario by flying those passengers through Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru.”

Only around 10% of Air India’s international passengers use Indian airports as a transfer option, a figure the airline aims to double within three years.

To achieve this, Aggarwal and his team are revamping Air India’s long-haul schedules to create a “bank structure” at its hub in Delhi. Flights will be timed to arrive in clusters, minimising layover time for passengers to connect to popular destinations in Europe, Australia and elsewhere, he said.

West Asia has a natural geographic advantage. For instance, around two-thirds of the world’s population live within a 4-hour flight of Dubai, making it an ideal hub connecting Asia, Europe and Africa.

Live Events

India enjoys a similar geographic advantage for connections to Australia and the Far East.

For instance, Air India offers the fastest connecting options to Australia, Southeast Asia and South Asia for multiple flights from European cities like Frankfurt and Paris that lack direct connectivity to these regions, Aggarwal said.

“We cannot take back the entire 85% transfer traffic as we cannot fly to all destinations that Middle Eastern carriers do, but we have identified some natural geographical advantage markets to which the shortest flight will be via India and also has a large diaspora of Indians,” he said.

For some other destinations, the airline would look to leverage the Changi airport hub of Singapore Airlines, which holds a 26 % stake in Air India, he added.

Air India has revamped its domestic and short-haul network by adding more flights on routes that have the potential to feed traffic on its long-haul network. For example, the number of weekly flights to Southeast Asia and Saarc destinations have increased to 264 and 182, respectively, from 29 and 66 before privatisation.

“We have turned a point-to-point network to an increasingly hub-focused operation on metro routes…like there more flights between Bengaluru and Delhi, which has the potential to have traffic to long haul destinations,” Aggarwal said.

It has transferred other routes to low-cost subsidiary Air India Express.

Air India has also invested in new aircraft and a $400-million refurbishment programme, which would see the number of front-end seats being doubled and having a first class in some of its planes. “ We want to be an aspirational airline,” Aggarwal said.

Still, many frequent flyers told ET they prefer Gulf carriers for their superior products, services and in-flight hospitality standards.

Experts noted that Air India’s has also been hamstrung by delays in its refurbishment programme to retrofit its decade-old aircraft with new seats and in-flight entertainment into its decade-old aircraft have also hindered Air India’s efforts to attract premium travellers, experts noted.

“Creating a new bank of flights to European destinations and offering better connections from Australia is a great change,” said Ameya Joshi, founder of aviation blog Network Thoughts. “It also marks the first of many steps that will go into making Delhi a large hub and Air India a preferred carrier. However, the continuing delay in refurbishment remains a major challenge for the airline to attract high yielding passengers.”

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless