Title: 12 flights diverted from Changi Airport due to poor weather conditions
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/flights-diverted-changi-airport-seletar-heavy-rain-weather-monsoon-surge-4853666
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Twelve flights have been diverted from Changi Airport since Friday evening (Jan 10) after a monsoon surge led to prolonged rain in Singapore.

The flights, operated by various airlines, were from destinations including Bangkok, Jakarta, Phuket and Shanghai, said Changi Airport Group (CAG) on Monday in response to CNA’s queries.

They were diverted to regional airports such as Johor Bahru, Kuala Lumpur and Batam.

Six non-commercial flights bound for Seletar Airport were diverted to Changi Airport, CAG added.

As the wet weather persists, flights by national carrier Singapore Airlines (SIA) continued to be delayed or retimed on Monday, said the airline in response to CNA's queries.

"SIA apologises to all customers for the inconvenience caused. We seek their understanding that the safety of our customers and staff members is always our top priority," said a spokesperson.

SIA urged customers to update their contact details for their booking or subscribe to its mobile notification service to receive updates on their flight status.

"We will continue to closely monitor the situation, and make appropriate adjustments to our flights where necessary," it said.

Low-cost carrier Scoot said flight TR617 operating from Bangkok to Singapore was diverted to Batam on Jan 10.

"We will also continue to provide the necessary assistance to affected customers, where required," it added.

Since Friday, Singapore has been experiencing prolonged rain, with moderate to heavy downpours in many areas, said national water agency PUB in a Facebook post on Sunday. The rainy weather is expected to last until Monday.

A monsoon surge refers to a strengthening of winds over the South China Sea, causing extensive rainclouds to form over a surrounding region.

From Friday to Saturday, Changi recorded the highest total rainfall at 255.2mm. This amount is more than Singapore's average monthly rainfall of 222.4mm in January, said PUB.