Title: Alaska Airlines orders more Boeing 787s, to open Dreamliner base in Seattle
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/alaska-airlines-hawaiian-boeing-787-dreamliner-base-seattle/
--------------------------------------------------

July 03, 2025

Alaska Airlines orders more Boeing 787s, to open Dreamliner base in Seattle

The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.

Alaska Airlines is moving ahead with plans to expand long-haul flying from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) with an order for five more Boeing 787 Dreamliners.

The Seattle-based Oneworld alliance carrier has exercised purchase rights for five additional 787-9s from the Hawaiian Airlines orderbook, said Larry Payne, chair of the Hawaiian Airlines Master Executive Council at the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), on the Alaska Pilots Podcast on Wednesday. That brings Alaska's total firm commitments for the long-haul jet to 13 aircraft, plus four already in the fleet, based on its last fleet plan at the end of March.

In addition, Alaska plans to open a Hawaiian 787 pilot base in Seattle in March 2026, and exercised options for 12 additional Boeing 737 MAX 10s, Payne said.

The more you know: The best time to book flights for the cheapest airfare

"I think overall this is the first phase in what we're seeing with the company executing on their promise of growth as a result of the merger," said Will McQuillen, chair of the Alaska Airlines Master Executive Council at ALPA, on the podcast with Payne.

An Alaska spokesperson declined to comment.

The orders confirm what Alaska management has indicated since the airline closed its merger with Hawaiian in September 2024: that Hawaiian's 787 fleet would eventually connect Seattle to the world. The airline launched its first long-haul flight from Seattle operated by Hawaiian — Alaska cannot operate Hawaiian's planes itself until the airlines merge operations on a single certificate — to Tokyo's Narita International Airport (NRT) with an Airbus A330 in May.

Flights from Seattle to Seoul's Incheon International Airport (ICN) begin Sept. 12, and to Rome Fiumicino Leonardo da Vinci Airport (FCO) — Alaska and Hawaiian's first European destination — in May 2026. Hawaiian will operate Seoul with an A330 and Rome with a 787, the latter doubling as the launch of Alaska's all-new flagship international experience.

Alaska plans at least 12 long-haul intercontinental routes from Seattle by the end of the decade, executives have said.

Delta, Alaska's biggest competitor in Seattle, is not sitting idly by. Shortly after Alaska unveiled its Italian plans, the SkyTeam Alliance carrier announced its own nonstop from the Emerald City to Rome beginning May 6, 2026, and to Josep Tarradellas Barcelona-El Prat Airport (BCN) later that month.

Delta has the benefit of a large existing long-haul base in Seattle with flights to both Asia and Europe, whereas Alaska is a beloved hometown brand and larger overall in the Puget Sound region.