Title: USMC KC-130J Completes Circumnavigation of the Globe During Two-Week Mission
Source: Theaviationist.com
URL: https://theaviationist.com/2024/11/23/usmc-kc-130j-circumnavigation-of-the-globe/
--------------------------------------------------

The primary mission of this KC-130J assigned to VMGR-352 was to deliver equipment and Marines to Camp Lemonnier in support of CJTF-HOA. The mission also upheld the KC-130J Super Hercules’s versatility in long-distance logistics and refueling of both fixed and rotary-wing aircraft.

A KC-130J Super Hercules from VMGR-352 (Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 352) “Raiders” circumnavigated the globe in a 14-day journey from early to mid-September 2024, hopping between “11 strategic stops” across Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Indo-Pacific regions. The trip began and ended at the KC-130’s home base at MCAS (Marine Corps Air Station) Miramar, California.

Part of the MAG 11 (Marine Aircraft Group 11), 3rd MAW (Marine Aircraft Wing), the VMGR-352’s primary mission was to “deliver equipment and Marines to 3 MAW squadrons to Camp Lemonnier” in Djibouti, in support of CJTF-HOA (Combined Joint Task Force-Horn of Africa).

The INDOPAC region comprised the largest number of stops, including Diego Gacia, Wake Island, Guam and Singapore, beside Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, part of the CTF-HOA (Combined Task Force-Horn of Africa). The return leg to Miramar included stops in Qatar, Greece, England, and Maine.

Camp Lemonnier has hosted a detachment from VMGR-352 since May 2024, providing air-to-air refueling, combat assault transport and airdrop capability to CJTF-HOA and other partners in the region.

Significance

The mission allowed the 10 pilots and crews involved to enhance their proficiency and to hone their skills in navigation and logistical operations over extended ranges and varied conditions, said the statement. This would help them earn critical qualifications for future assignments and career progressions.

The circumnavigation also upheld the KC-130J Super Hercules’ versatility in long-distance logistics and refueling of both fixed and rotary-wing aircraft, enabled by its 3,500 nautical mile (6,582 km) range and fuel offload capacity of 57,000 pounds (25,854 kg) using internal and external fuel tanks. The KC-130J can simultaneously carry up to 92 troops while also serving as a flying gas station and cargo.

This capability “made it ideal for delivering Marines and equipment to Camp Lemonnier.” In other words, the KC-130J Super Hercules is a “multirole” platform, capable of tactical transport, air delivery, and air-to-air refueling that can support diverse missions across the globe. Another significant mission by the VMGR-352 was in Feb. 2022, when it refueled Mirage 2000 jets, again flying from MCAS Miramar to Camp Lemonnier in support of CJTF-HOA.

Journey and the stops

Photos published on DVIDS (Defense Visual Information and Distribution Service) show the KC-130J being inspected at MCAS Miramar on Sep. 4, 2024, with it landing at MCAS Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii, later on the same day. The aircraft (modex 277) is carrying two external fuel tanks for the long-haul journey, in addition to the two air refueling pods.

Another picture, taken on Sep. 5, shows the aircraft at Wake Island, where it received fuel after leaving Hawaii. It then reached Guam on Sep. 7, followed by another stop in Singapore. The KC-130J departed from the country’s Changi International Airport on Sep. 9, and was photographed at Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti on Sep. 11, where it remained for the next few days.

An image showed the KC-130 as it was refueled by a servicing truck at Camp Lemonnier. On Sep. 13 the aircraft was photographed beside another KC-130J, also from VMGR-352, deployed to the base. As mentioned earlier, Camp Lemonnier has hosted a detachment from VMGR-352 since May 2024.

The statement says the long-range mission delivered “essential personnel, supplies and equipment to 3rd MAW squadrons deployed” there. Among those squadrons is also the VMM-164 (Marine Medium Tiltrotor Squadron-164 Reinforced) “Knightriders”, flying the MV-22B Osprey aircraft. In fact, pictures from Sep. 11 showed USMC Osprey airframe mechanics conducting routine maintenance on an MV-22B assigned to the unit at Camp Lemonnier.

Subsequent statements from VMGR-352 leaders also touched upon “bulky supply parts” for the CJTF-HOA. It was interesting to see that at Guam, Singapore and Camp Lemonnier the KC-130J had the flag of the U.S. Marine Corps attached to a pole and fluttering above the cockpit.

On Sep. 14, the aircraft was photographed at Qatar’s Al Udeid Air Base, where VMGR-352’s commanding officer, Lt. Col. Mark Brock, conducted pre-flight checks on the KC-130J’s exterior. The aircraft then returned to MCAS Miramar on Sep. 18, with the photo’ caption describing the mission as a “flight around the globe.”

USMC role in strategic logistical supply and support

The latest “deliberate mission” and “training opportunity” highlighted the USMC aviation’s vital role in supporting U.S. operations through “global deployment readiness…across multiple theaters.” VMGR-352’s commanding officer Lt. Col. Mark Bock said the KC-130J extends the “operational reach of 3 MAW,” and “demonstrated the readiness and skill of the Marines who fix and fly our aircraft.”

The OIC (Officer-in-Charge) of the KC-130J Detachment at Camp Lemonnier, Major Nathan Fluker, pointed to how the 3 MAW’s “unique” capabilities “play a vital role in crisis response as well as supporting partner nations” since the CJTF-HOA is made up of various units throughout the joint force. “The bulky supply parts would have taken weeks to ship by other means,” Fluker added.

The stops were both “logistically necessary,” to ensure “refueling and resupply needed to traverse vast distances,” and “strategically impactful, showcasing the Marine Corps’ ability to operate seamlessly across different continents and strengthen relationships with partner nations.” “Disparate stops require us to comply with different national rules and regulations and build relationships,” Bock added.