Title: I’m a flight attendant on the longest flight in the world — here’s how I endure 19 hours in the sky
Source: New York Post
URL: https://nypost.com/2025/07/08/lifestyle/im-a-flight-attendant-on-the-longest-flight-in-the-world/
--------------------------------------------------

This is how flight attendants get cleared for takeoff for the longest flight in the world.

The longest nonstop flight in the world carries passengers from New York City’s John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) to Singapore Changi International Airport (SIN), taking 18 hours and 45 minutes.

While it may be the trip of a lifetime or a dreaded long-haul, for some, it’s just another day in the office.

Madeline Khaw, a leading flight attendant at Singapore Airlines, revealed what it’s really like to work the lengthy trip and shared her tips for passengers to make it bearable — and possibly even comfortable.

To stay functional and focused over nearly 19 hours, the flight crew operates in rotating shifts.

“The crew is divided into designated rest periods in the crew bunks,” Khaw told Travel & Leisure. “It’s critical to ensure that all crew members get adequate rest, so they’re alert and able to provide consistent service and deliver the required safety standards throughout the journey.”

But resting at altitude isn’t always easy. Turbulence, cabin noise, and time zone differences can wreak havoc on sleep cycles.

For Khaw, who frequently crosses up to 15 time zones in a single trip, fatigue is a real concern.

“Operating long-haul flights does come with its own set of challenges, with fatigue being one of the most noticeable long-term effects,” Khaw admitted. “Over time, it may contribute to things like persistent tiredness and occasional breakouts.”

That’s why she’s implemented hydrating facial masks as part of her skincare routine — something we could likely all use — and works to keep a healthy sleep schedule when on the ground.

Khaw emphasized that crew dynamics play a vital role in making these flights work.

“From the moment we begin our duties, there’s an unspoken understanding that we’ll need to rely on each other throughout the 18 hours — not just for service efficiency, but also to maintain morale and energy,” Khaw explained.

“Sharing a laugh or moment with the crew during a lull period is a real energy booster.”

But the preparation begins before boarding.

Khaw’s pre-flight rituals protect her mental health as much as they do her physical health.

Before take off, she focuses on spending time with family, and sharing a home-cooked meal with her loved ones helps her to feel grounded.

Packing checklists, extra uniforms, skincare essentials, and vitamins allows Khaw to enjoy the ride.

“Getting to operate ultra-long-haul flights has taken me to places I never imagined visiting,” she said.

“I’m flying to New York, one of the most exciting cities in the world, and I’ve trained hard to be here. That sense of pride keeps me centered.”