Title: Blackpink Singer Lisa Matches With Psy On The Hot 100
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2025/02/21/blackpink-singer-lisa-matches-with-psy-on-the-hot-100/
--------------------------------------------------

Just before she releases her debut full-length on her own, Lisa of Blackpink returns to the Hot 100. The singer debuts her new single "Born Again" at No. 68 on the list of the most-consumed tracks throughout the nation, earning another special smash.

As "Born Again"—which features both Doja Cat and Raye—arrives, the tune helps Lisa rise on a historic ranking of the most successful K-pop acts in America. While Lisa was originally born in Thailand, she got her start in music as one-fourth of Blackpink, and she is primarily known for her work in that genre.

With "Born Again" hitting the Hot 100, Lisa earns her fifth solo smash on the tally. She is now tied for the fourth-most placements on the competitive list among K-pop soloists.

Matched with Lisa at the moment with five hits on the Hot 100 is Psy. He became one of the first South Korean musical acts of any kind to land on the list more than a decade ago with "Gangnam Style." After a flurry of excitement that produced several additional Hot 100 wins, he even managed to add to that sum recently with a comeback.

BTS singer Jung Kook leads all K-pop soloists in terms of the most Hot 100 smashes, with seven. Two other members of the same boy band, Jimin and V, are tied for second place, with half a dozen each.

Last week, before "Born Again" arrived on the chart, Lisa was on the same level as yet another two singers from BTS. J-Hope and Suga—who also releases music under the name Agust D—have thus far collected four appearances on their own on the ranking, and that number will likely rise again when they are ready to release new music.

Lisa scored her first two hits just a few weeks apart in 2021. "Lalisa" debuted and peaked at No. 84 on the chart, and "Money" followed later that year, spending two frames on the ranking, but only climbing to No. 90.

Lisa’s upcoming album Alter Ego has produced three additional Hot 100 hits. She started the campaign with "Rockstar," which opened at No. 70 this past July. Almost a month later, "New Woman" featuring Rosalía barely cracked the Hot 100, spending a single turn at No. 97.