Title: Looking ahead: 11 things the TPG team is excited about for 2025
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/tpg-team-excited-about-2025/
--------------------------------------------------

Update: Some offers mentioned below are no longer available. View the current offers here.

As 2024 winds down, we're looking ahead to changes coming to the travel world in 2025. From new hotels and airline routes to premium credit cards and swanky airport lounges, here are 11 things we're looking forward to next year.

Related: Points and miles tasks to complete by the end of the year

Points on mortgage payments

One piece of news I'm especially excited about is a statement from Bilt's founder and CEO in an email sent to Bilt Rewards members earlier this month:

"[In 2025], we'll announce the first phase of plans in the mortgage space, creating a whole new category of value for homeowners. Whether you're making monthly payments or refinancing, you'll soon be able to earn points on your mortgage payments."

Since I got into the points and miles game after buying a home, I've never had a chance to use the Bilt Mastercard® to earn valuable transferable points on rent. If Bilt follows through with this, it would be a game-changer for me.

Of course, it remains to be seen exactly what this looks like. Will this be on all mortgages or only for select providers? Will there be a limit on the points you can earn? What will the earning rate be?

Hopefully, we can look forward to more details arriving sometime next year.

The information for the Bilt Mastercard has been collected independently by The Points Guy. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer.

Related: Should you pay your rent with Bilt?

Easier-to-earn status with Alaska Airlines

Alaska Airlines' Mileage Plan program recently announced multiple changes that could make it easier to earn elite status. For starters, cardholders of the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature® credit card or Alaska Airlines Visa® Business card will be able to earn 1 elite-qualifying mile (EQM) for every $3 spent, up to 30,000 total EQMs per year starting Jan. 1, 2025 (the current annual limit is 20,000 EQMs).

Even more exciting, the program will start awarding EQMs on award tickets, just like on paid tickets. This is a generous feature that many frequent flyer programs don't offer, and it could put elite status within reach for more casual Alaska flyers. One TPGer even said it might sway her to leave American's AAdvantage program.

However, these changes could have unintended negative consequences. They could cause Mileage Plan's elite status ranks to swell, especially when the program integrates HawaiianMiles, leading to longer lines, more crowded lounges or additional competition for upgrades. We'll be watching this space closely in 2025 to see how things shake out.

Related: How to earn last-minute airline elite status

New premium credit cards

Alaska Airlines also recently announced its first premium credit card, set to launch in summer 2025 with a $395 annual fee. Exciting benefits include 3 miles per dollar spent on eligible dining and foreign purchases, lounge passes and a companion award certificate. You can earn 500 bonus miles just by adding your name to the waitlist — along with an additional 5,000 miles if you apply and are approved through the application link you'll receive when the card launches.

JetBlue has also teased a new credit card that will be higher-end than the JetBlue Plus Card. We don't have many details yet, but a key benefit will be access to JetBlue's first-ever airport lounges for the cardholder and one guest.

These may not be the only higher-end cards to debut in 2025. With airlines like Frontier and Southwest investing in more premium onboard products, TPG credit cards writer Olivia Mittak says, "It feels like 2025 is going to be the year of the airline card."

The information for the JetBlue Plus Card has been collected independently by The Points Guy. The card details on this page have not been reviewed or provided by the card issuer.

Related: Are premium credit cards worth the annual fee?

New (and less-crowded) lounges

Here at TPG, we love our airport lounges — so we're thrilled to see a slew of new ones opening next year.

Alaska Airlines is expanding its lounge network to hubs in San Diego and Honolulu, a smart move in the wake of its merger with Hawaiian. JetBlue's debut lounges are slated to open in New York and Boston in late 2025. Holders of the carrier's soon-to-be-announced premium credit card will get access, as well as top-tier Mosaic members and transatlantic Mint cabin travelers. Delta is also eyeing future lounge expansion, having opened its first three Delta One Lounges this year — in New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Boston Logan International Airport (BOS).

Chase's meteoric lounge portfolio growth continued in 2024, as new locations in Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport (PHX) and San Diego International Airport (SAN) began welcoming travelers. This will continue in the new year, with new lounges set to open in 2025 in both Philadelphia International Airport (PHL) and Las Vegas' Harry Reid International Airport (LAS). Yet another location in Los Angeles is also in the works, though its opening date is still TBD.

Meanwhile, the first Capital One Landing opened at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) in Nov. 2024, and a second location for New York's LaGuardia Airport (LGA) is slated for 2025. In addition, a pair of new Capital One Lounges are on tap for 2025 in Las Vegas and New York-JFK — the latter of which will feature a bodega and in-house cheesemonger.

Meanwhile, some programs have taken steps to battle lounge overcrowding by shrinking credit card lounge access. Holders of several cards with Delta Sky Club access will see a cap on their allotted visits in 2025, and two Capital One cards are losing lounge access altogether as of Jan. 1, 2025.

While this is surely a disappointment to some, I'm looking forward to the change. That's because I hold the Capital One Venture X Rewards Credit Card, which still provides lounge access, and I often encounter sizable crowds and lengthy wait times at the issuer's Denver lounge. I hope this update will cut down on crowds and make my home lounge more enjoyable next year.

Related: The do's and don'ts of visiting an airport lounge

Hotels, cabins and campsites galore

"In the hotel world, 2025 is already shaping up to be a stellar year," says TPG senior hotels reporter Tanner Saunders. He's looking forward to "the expected announcement of more points-participating safari lodges, and the potential for more major acquisitions or partnerships from the big hotel companies following a year of big shake-ups with brands like Graduate, Autocamp, The Standard, MGM and Small Luxury Hotels all making moves."

As an outdoor enthusiast, I'm particularly excited to see the trend of points-bookable cabins and campsites continue into 2025. Since Hyatt acquired Under Canvas and Autocamp joined the Hilton family in the past year, we now have multiple ways to glamp on points. With Marriott's recent announcement about Postcard Cabins and Trailborn, I hope we'll be able to earn and burn Bonvoy points at these properties sometime in 2025.

Related: The best US glamping resorts for an outdoorsy getaway

More premium seats in the sky

Premium seats — ranging from extra-legroom seats to lie-flat pods — undoubtedly make flying more fun. That's why we're thrilled to see some low-cost and regional carriers joining the likes of the Big Three in offering some form of premium cabins in 2025.

Southwest plans to start retrofitting its jets with extra-legroom seats, a first for the carrier, in the first quarter of 2025. These will be available to elite members as a new perk or to non-elites for an extra fee.

Alaska is adding a new international premium economy product to its upcoming long-haul routes, starting with Tokyo's Narita International Airport (NRT) and Seoul's Incheon International Airport (ICN).

Ultra-low-cost carrier Frontier announced plans to incorporate first class-style seats in late 2025. JetBlue is stepping up its premium game as well by adding a new domestic-style first-class cabin to complement Mint, its international lie-flat business-class product.

Related: How to reserve premium economy seats for the price of a coach seat

Assigned seating on Southwest

While some Southwest loyalists bemoaned the carrier's announcement that it would begin assigning seats, others are celebrating it.

Gabby Bernardini, TPG's senior points and miles editor, is one of those:

"This may be a bit controversial, but I am actually excited for the airline to begin selling assigned seats. Even as a Southwest cardholder, I somehow always get placed in boarding group C and am forced to be separated from the rest of my travel party. Southwest rolling out assigned seats ... makes me more excited to fly with the carrier. Aside from knowing exactly what seat I'm sitting in, I won't be forced to separate from my travel party. Plus, I'll be able to spend a few extra minutes in an airport lounge as I won't have to worry about making sure I'm in line when my boarding group is called to potentially snag a more ideal seat."

Southwest flyers should begin to see assigned seats on sale starting in late 2025 for flights taking off in early 2026 — and A-List and A-List Preferred members now have a better idea of the seating benefits that will be available to them.

Related: The end of an era: Why I'm sad about Southwest Airlines saying farewell to open seating

Better redemptions at Choice Hotels

TPG senior points and miles writer and Choice Privileges loyalist Katie Genter looks forward to some changes in the program in 2025.

Choice Privileges members can currently book award stays up to 100 days in advance. In early 2025, that booking window will expand to 50 weeks—nearly a full year. This will make it easier for travelers to plan their trips and may help them save money by booking airfare further out.

Choice also plans to reintroduce RewardSaver, a handy tool of Radisson Rewards Americas before it was integrated into Choice Privileges. RewardSaver will apply automatic discounts to award rates, dropping the lowest award night price from 8,000 points to 6,000 points.

Related: Unique ways to redeem Choice Privileges points

More ways to get to Europe on points & miles

As demand for European flights continues to rise, so do prices — making this a great way to redeem your points and miles. Several major carriers have announced new routes to Europe in 2025, and new routes often have the best award availability.

For instance, we've found plenty of tickets on JetBlue's new seasonal nonstop flight from Boston to Edinburgh starting around 32,000 TrueBlue points and $5.60 one-way in fall 2025.

On American's new flight from Chicago's O'Hare International Airport (ORD) to Naples International Airport (NAP), there's wide-open availability in summer 2025 starting as low as 19,000 AAdvantage miles and $5.60 each way.

We'd recommend checking out United's eight new international cities and Delta's expanded transatlantic routes, too, as you may spot some great deals. Plus, thanks to the recent Virgin Atlantic Flying Club changes, you can now find economy fares to Europe for as low as 6,000 Virgin points each way — or the carrier's well-regarded Upper Class for as little as 29,000 points.

Read more: Combining a transfer bonus and Virgin's Saver fares: How I booked lie-flat business-class seats to London for just 21,000 points

New cruise ships and stops

TPG's cruise team is excited to see a lineup of new ships setting off on their maiden voyages in 2025.

Disney's largest ship ever, Disney Adventure, will debut in Singapore with 9,000 passengers and crew — and the world's longest roller coaster at sea. MSC is also debuting its biggest-ever ship, the MSC World America, sailing for the Caribbean in April 2025.

Under-the-radar cruise line Windstar is adding two luxurious all-suite vessels, complete with ice-strengthened hulls for expeditions to Antarctica and other polar destinations.

Meanwhile, Carnival Cruise Line will debut a new private island off the Bahamas if you'd rather spend your vacation in a swimsuit than a parka. Celebration Key is slated to open to cruise passengers in July 2025, offering food, shopping and shore excursions.

Related: Best first-time cruises for all types of travelers

Exciting theme park events and openings

2025 is shaping up to be a stellar year for theme park fans — especially Disney aficionados who have struggled to get their hands on special event tickets. Disneyland Anaheim is celebrating its 70th anniversary with a more than year-long bash starting in May 2025, giving visitors plenty of opportunities to take part. Disney has already announced its calendar of other special events as well, making it easier for families to plan their visit in advance. Some events, like the Oogie Boogie Bash, are offering more dates than ever to give you a better chance of snagging tickets.

TPG senior writer Tarah Chieffi is especially looking forward to the Disneyland After Dark: 90s Nite event. "I was a little old for the demographic for the Disney Channel Nite in 2024, but this one has all my favorites … characters like Darkwing Duck and Powerline Max and fun 90s music and photo ops."

And senior director of content Summer Hull says: "The two things I'd love to experience in person are Disneyland's Pride night — it's only a two-night offering so great to have those dates in advance — and Oogie Boogie, which is the best Halloween offering Disney puts out."

But it's not just the house of the mouse that has theme park goers salivating. Epic Universe, Universal's brand-new Orlando theme park, will open its doors on May 22, 2025.

Related: $50 kids tickets to Disneyland available now for early 2025 visits

Bottom line

There's a lot to look forward to in 2025 — including new credit cards, new airport lounges, new cruise ships and even a brand-new theme park. And there will likely be even more exciting developments in the travel and loyalty world that aren't on our radar right now.

Of course, not all changes will be positive. Our 2025 trends report predicts travel costs will continue to rise, and points and miles will get harder to use. Then there's the ongoing threat from proposed legislation that could drastically alter the rewards landscape.

Here at TPG, we're committed to keeping you informed about everything that's coming in 2025. So be sure you've signed up for our daily newsletter and follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok for more coverage and analysis of these exciting developments next year.

Related reading: