Title: Airport seeking public's help to reunite parrot with owner
Source: BBC News
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c0q97p281lgo
--------------------------------------------------

Can you help reunite a parrot with its owner?

Well, staff at Dublin Airport are seeking the public's help to do just that after the bird was found on the grounds on Easter Sunday.

The bird was discovered by airport police near terminal one after being spotted perched on a rubbish bin.

And this isn't the first time a parrot has been lost in Dublin Airport after one attempted to take off from the main runway in 2019.

But can this be a similar success story?

The airport said the bird, which it has named Troy after the Republic of Ireland footballer Troy Parrott, was confirmed as a female Alexandrine parakeet after a vet check.

"One of the responding officers was able to gently coax the bird using food, and the parrot quickly became comfortable, even perching on the officer's hand and shoulder," the airport said in a statement.

"The bird was safely secured and brought to a nearby patrol vehicle, where it appeared to settle in the warmth of the van as the officers completed their patrol."

Officers brought the parrot back to the airport police station where it was "provided with fruit, water and some toys and a comfortable temporary enclosure made from and dog crate and brush handle".

"The bird has been well cared for overnight," the statement added.

An Garda Síochána (Irish police), a local pet shop and a nearby animal sanctuary have all been notified.

The airport has been actively sharing details on social media in an effort to locate its owner.

It added that "a number of enquiries have been received, including some referencing leg ring numbers, none have matched the identification on this parrot to date".

"We look forward to helping this unexpected visitor get safely home."

A parrot that attempted to take off from the main runway at Dublin Airport was reunited with its owner in 2019.

The African grey female named Hugo was spotted taxiing for flight by a firefighter who was carrying out a routine safety inspection.