Title: Most Instagrammable Places in Singapore
Source: Thetravelsisters.com
URL: https://thetravelsisters.com/instagram-worthy-places-in-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

Instagram Worthy Places in Singapore

Disclosure: This article contains affiliate links. If you make a booking after clicking on these links, we may earn a small commission (at no additional cost to you).

If you need help taking photos or your time is short, consider this instagram walking tour or this instagram tour by car to get photos taken by a private photographer at the best Singapore instagram spots.

Top Instagrammable Places in Singapore

These are the most instagrammable places in Singapore and are a must on any Singapore visit.

Supertree Grove at Gardens by the Bay

The Supertree Grove at the Gardens by the Bay is probably the most instagrammable place in Singapore. These futuristic tree-shaped vertical gardens are beautiful both in the day and in the evening when they are lit up.

Admission to the Supertree Grove is free but there is a fee to enter the OCBC Skyway (elevated walkway between the Supertrees).

The best (and most crowded) time to visit is at night to see the free Garden Rhapsody light and music show that takes place at 7:45pm and 8:45pm daily. If you have time, you can also visit in the day for completely different photos and fewer crowds.

Location: 18 Marina Gardens Drive, Singapore 018953 (see their website for detailed directions)

Hours: 5.00am – 2.00am

Cloud Forest at Gardens by the Bay

The Cloud Forest is an indoor conservatory at Gardens by the Bay with a 35-metre tall mountain covered in lush vegetation shrouding a tall indoor waterfall. One of the most instagrammable spots is in front of the indoor waterfall located right at the entrance.

Cloud Forest has a separate admission fee and visitors are required to pre-book their visit date and time.

Location: 18 Marina Gardens Drive, Singapore 018953

Hours: 9.00am to 9.00pm (last admission at 8.30pm)

Powered by GetYourGuide

Infinity Pool at Marina Bay Sands Hotel

The iconic infinity pool at the Marina Bay Sands hotel is one of the top spots for instagram photos. However, only hotel guests of the pricey hotel can use the pool. We stayed here a couple of nights and found that the Marina Bay Sands worth the high cost. (Read: Is the Marina Bay Sands Worth It?)

Those not staying at the hotel can enjoy similar views from the observation deck at SkyPark or CÉ LA VI SkyBar & Club (rooftop bar).

Address: 10 Bayfront Ave, Singapore 018956 (their website has detailed directions)

MRT: MRT Bayfront Station

ArtScience Museum

ArtScience Museum (part of the Marina Bay Sands complex) is a museum where art meets science. The best spot for instagram photos is inside Future World, digital interactive installation which is a permanent exhibition created in collaboration with teamLab Exhibition.

Location: 10 Bayfront Avenue, Singapore 018956

Hours: 10am – 7pm daily

Powered by GetYourGuide

Merlion Park

The Merlion statue, with the head of a lion and the body of a fish, is one of Singapore’s most famous landmarks. Water spouts from the statue’s mouth so tourists can take creative and campy photos by appropriately positioning themselves.

Merlion Park also offers great views of the harbor and Marina Bay Sands complex both in the evening and in the day.

Location: Find Merlion Park on google maps here.

Helix Bridge

The Helix Bridge is a pedestrian bridge located in the Marina Bay area. This bridge is unique for having a ‘double-helix’ structure inspired by DNA structure. The Helix bridge is best experienced at night when it is illuminated.

Location: You can find Helix Bridge on google maps here.

Haji Lane in Kampong Glam

Kampong Glam is the traditional Malay-Muslim quarter of Singapore but it is now an eclectic and trendy area with many side streets filled with quirky shops and hip cafes.

Haji Lane is the most well known street but the entire neighborhood is very instagrammable as it is full of street art and colorful murals.

Location: You can find Haji Lane on google maps here.

Powered by GetYourGuide

Sultan Mosque in Kampong Glam

Another instagrammable spot in Kampong Glam are the streets with a view of the Masjid Sultan, also known as the Sultan Mosque.

Location: 3 Muscat St, Singapore 198833. You can find the location on google maps here.

Singapore Botanic Gardens

The large Singapore Botanic Gardens is the only UNESCO World Heritage Site in Singapore and a good place to escape the city and see beautiful flowers. The most instagrammable spot can be found inside the National Orchid Garden.

Admission to Singapore Botanic Gardens is free, but there is a small fee to enter the National Orchid Garden.

Location: 1 Cluny Rd, Singapore 259569 (Botanic Gardens MRT)

Hours: 5 am to 12 midnight daily

HSBC Rain Vortex at Jewel Changi Airport

The HSBC Rain Vortex, the world’s tallest indoor waterfall at 40 metres high is the highlight of Jewel Changi Airport and rightly so. There are different levels where you can watch the waterfalls.

The waterfall looks different in the daytime and at night. There are nightly Light & Sound shows (8.00pm & 9.00pm as well as 10.00pm on the weekends) during which the waterfall is illuminated in different colors.

Location: Jewel Changi Airport, 78 Airport Boulevard, Singapore 819666

Hours: Mon – Thu: 11:00AM – 10:00PM, Fri – Sun: 10:00AM – 10:00PM

Hidden Instagram Worthy Places in Singapore

These hidden Singapore spots are not very well known, but they are very instaworthy. You won’t find as many tourists here, which makes it easier to get the perfect instagram shot.

Former House of Tan Teng Niah in Little India

Built in 1900, the former house of Tan Teng Niah is the last surviving Chinese villa in Little India. The colourful building is a hidden gem in Singapore.

If you walk around the rest of Little India you can also see plenty of street art.

Location: Gholia’s Village, 37 Kerbau Rd, Singapore 219168. You can find the location on google maps here.

MRT: Little India Station (Exit E).

Peranakan Houses at Koon Seng Road

Koon Seng Road in the historic Joo Chiat neighborhood has the prettiest houses in Singapore. Originally built in the 1920s, these structures were once inhabited by Peranakan Chinese, which can be seen in the intricate detailing and tiles adorning each home.

There is a block of pastel-coloured shophouses on both sides of the street so you can talk photos on both sides. Make sure to visit during the day to capture the beautiful colors.

Location: 287 Joo Chiat Rd, Singapore 427540. You can find the location on google maps here.

Location: The closest MRT stations are Eunos Stn and Paya Lebar but they are not that close. We took a Grab rideshare to Tin Yeang Restaurant (300 Joo Chiat Rd, Singapore 427551) which is right across the street.

Fort Canning Tree Tunnel

This instagram spot at Fort Canning Park is literally hidden because it is below ground.

In order to take photos with greenery views from the bottom of spiral steps, you need to walk down the stairs into the tunnel and shoot from below. If you have a tripod or have another person to take photos, you can sit or stand on the ledge. You can also take photos from above for a different vantage point.

Tip: There is usually a line of people waiting get on the ledge to take photos, so you need to be patient and wait your turn. (We did not care to wait to get in the photo so we took a quick photo during the brief moment the ledge was empty.)

Location: Fort Canning Park is bounded by Hill Street, Canning Rise, Clemenceau Avenue and River Valley Road. The Tree Tunnel is at 51 Canning Rise, Singapore 179872 and you can find the location on google maps here.

MRT: Fort Canning Station (Exit B), Clarke Quay Station (Exit E) or Dhoby Ghaut Station (Exit B).

Hours: Open 24 hours.

Old Hill Street Police Station

The Old Hill Street Police Station is a historic building and former police station of the Singapore Police Force which now houses the Ministry of Communications and Information (MCI). The building has 927 windows with shutters painted in the different colours of the rainbow making it a great background for instagram photos.

The best spot to take photos is from across the street or from the median in the middle of the street at less busy times when there are no cars waiting at the traffic light.

It actually starting raining after we got here so we snapped a couple of quick photos before running inside where they have a small exhibit about its history.

Tip: The Old Hill Street Police Station is located near Clarke Quay and about a 10 minute walk to Fort Canning Tree Tunnel so you easily combine both instagram spots.

Address: 140 Hill St, Singapore 179369

MRT Stations: City Hall and Clarke Quay

Library @ Orchard

Library @ Orchard is a small public library located at Levels 3 and 4 of Orchard Gateway that has a small section with wavy bookshelves that is very instagrammable. (We actually saw two local students taking graduation photos in their cap and gown.)

You can snap a photo of the wavy shelves from the level above.

Address: 277 Orchard Road, orchardgateway #03-12 / #04-11, Singapore 238858

MRT: Somerset MRT station

Hours: 11:00 AM – 09:00 PM

These are the most instagrammable places we have visited in Singapore. Do you have a favorite Singapore photography spot?