Title: Jennie Ties One Of Her Previous Hits With Her Brand New Single
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2025/03/04/jennie-ties-one-of-her-previous-hits-with-her-brand-new-single/
--------------------------------------------------

Ahead of the release of her debut solo album, Ruby, which is expected in only a matter of days, Jennie collects a new hit in one of the largest music markets in the world. The latest single pushed from her forthcoming full-length is a quick bestseller in the United Kingdom, and it performed well enough during its debut tracking frame to earn the singer another special placement on one of the most competitive rosters across the Atlantic.

“Extra L” debuts on the Official Singles chart at No. 37. The tune marks Jennie’s fifth appearance on the tally as a soloist, and its coincidental opening figure adds to a growing list of smashes from the K-pop icon.

Jennie’s new tune is now tied with another as her second highest-rising of all time on the U.K.’s Official Singles chart. As it opens at No. 37, it matches with with “Mantra” as one of her three top 40 wins on the main list of the most-consumed songs throughout the nation.

Just one of Jennie’s solo cuts has climbed higher, and it’s a track on which she was credited as a featured artist. “One of the Girls” was fronted by The Weeknd, who helped compose the cut for his TV show The Idol. The smash, which also features actor Lily-Rose Depp, rose all the way to No. 21 in the United Kingdom.

Jennie has scored one more top 40 hit in the U.K., and it ranked slightly lower than both “Mantra” and “Extra L” when looking at peak positions. “You & Me,” her first win in the country, only spent a single frame at No. 39 on the U.K.’s ranking of the most popular tracks before disappearing.

As it starts inside the top 40 on the all-consumption-focused Official Singles chart, “Extra L” also launches inside the top 10 on two other lists. The track kicks off its time at No. 4 on the Official Singles Downloads chart. It comes in two spaces beneath that rung on the Official Singles Sales ranking, adding to the Blackpink singer’s collection of top 10 successes.

The newly-released “Extra L” also performed well enough on streaming platforms like Spotify, Apple Music, and others to land on a tally dedicated to that form of consumption in the U.K. The single starts at No. 56 on the Official Streaming chart.

“Extra L” is the third official single taken from Ruby, and it likely won’t be the last. When the album drops, at least one more tune will likely be pushed as a focus track, which may help the superstar collect more chart hits. This time around, Jennie teamed up with recently named Grammy winner Doechii, whose presence makes the cut not just more interesting, but more appealing to a wider audience.