Title: Stray Kids' Bang Chan and I.N Endorse the Canadian Tuxedo Trend for Fall
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/stray-kids-bang-chan-and-in-canadian-tuxedo-trend-for-fall-2025
--------------------------------------------------

The last remaining days of summer are numbered, and Stray Kids members Bang Chan and I.N. are coming in hot with the perfect transitional style inspiration just in time for fall. And, of course, it's a love-it-or-hate-it classic.

On September 19, 2025, the eight members of Stray Kids were spotted at South Korea's Incheon Airport en route to Macau for the 18th The Fact Music Awards (TMA), and they all came equipped with a healthy dose of airport fashion.

In photos and videos captured by Dispatch, which you can see here, we see the members' takes on comfy fall fashion. While each member adhered to their own personal preferences, there was a hint of serendipitous coordination from the eldest and the youngest, who both went all in with two distinct takes on the divisive Canadian tuxedo trend.

Bang Chan, the group's eldest and leader, opted for a gray co-ord denim set featuring a lightweight outershirt-style jacket and matching pants, which he paired with a white Fendi tank top, a beige strap hat from Chrome Hearts with his ashy blond hair peeking through at the back, a pair of Fendi Match sneakers, and a black backpack.

I.N, on the other hand, opted for a true blue wash co-ord denim set, which was slightly thicker and more structured than Bang Chan's. He paired the denim with a black New York Yankees baseball cap, a large Ciao Ciao green bag, and a pair of chestnut brown Chelsea suede boots, the latter two from Bottega Veneta.

While I.N has been a long-time Canadian tuxedo truther, having worn the look more than once in the past, Bang Chan seems like a newer adoptee of the trend. Denim on denim has been on the rise this year, and this endorsement from Stray Kids signals that surely more and more people will likely adopt it in their fall wardrobes, for travel and beyond.

Aside from showing off their different takes on Canadian tuxedos, Stray Kids also teased even more stylistic changes during their airport sighting, with Lee Know subtly debuting a new blond 'do.