Title: Premiumization in Global Travel & Tourism Markets: 2024 Thematic Research Report
Source: GlobeNewswire
URL: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2024/02/21/2832929/28124/en/Premiumization-in-Global-Travel-Tourism-Markets-2024-Thematic-Research-Report.html
--------------------------------------------------

Dublin, Feb. 21, 2024 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The "Premiumization in Travel & Tourism (2024) - Thematic Research" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

This thematic research report takes an in-depth look at the theme of premiumization and the impact it has on the travel and tourism industry. This report analyzes the players impacted by this theme alongside the contributing trends, negative destination trends, unintended opportunities, and trends that have emerged as a result of premium tourism.

It then dives deep into an industry analysis, presenting several real-life case studies looking at how destinations and companies have responded to the impact of this theme on their operations. Recommendations are then offered for the travel sector, alongside a description of companies mentioned throughout. This report focus is on premiuimization within the tourism industry.

Key Highlights

The theme of premiumization, and the upscale and luxury markets, now have the opportunity to thrive in an industry that has had to rapidly change to meet new changes in traveler demands.

The increased need for privacy, a greater focus on health and wellbeing, a desire to tick off 'bucket list' experiences, unintentional saving of money, the tendency to take longer trips, the focus on eco-tourism, and an increase in millionaires means the theme of premiumization will continue to grow in importance.

The demand for luxury hotels is increasing, as more people are willing to spend more on premium experiences. This is shown by the Hotels Database. When looking at the US specifically, total hotel revenue for luxury hotels increased by 24% from 2022 to 2023. This is a significantly higher percentage increase than the US budget hotel sub-sector, which experienced a YoY revenue increase of 15%.

Reasons to Buy

Understand the Premiumization trends within the travel landscape today and how these will escalate in the near future.

Assess how travel and tourism companies such as tour operators, OTAs and DMOs are utilizing Premiumization to drive revenues.

Acknowledge the potential pitfalls of using Premiumization by understanding the social, cultural, and environmental effects on the destination.

Discover recommendations for businesses involved in Premiumization. The thematic research ecosystem is a single, integrated global research platform that provides an easy-to-use framework for tracking all themes across all companies in all sectors. It has a proven track record of identifying the important themes early, enabling companies to make the right investments ahead of the competition, and secure that all-important competitive advantage.

All across the travel and tourism supply chain, now have an opportunity to capitalize on Premiumization, and there are notable examples of this. Therefore, all should buy this report to fully understand how this theme will continue to be a key theme in the future travel landscape.

Key Topics Covered:

Executive Summary

Players

Thematic Briefing

Trends

Technology trends

Macroeconomic trends

Regulatory trends

Industry Analysis

Case Studies

Timeline

Signals

Company filing trends

Social media trends

Value Chain

Primary supplier

Secondary suppliers

Third-party suppliers

Companies

Public companies

Private companies

Sector Scorecards

Lodging sector scorecard

Glossary

A selection of companies mentioned in this report includes

Marriott International

One & Only

Four Seasons

Qatar Airways

Abercrombie & Kent

Carnival Cruise Line

British Airways

Habitas

Melco Resorts & Entertainment

Singapore Changi Airport

IYC

Dubai Mall

Harvey Nichols

Zurich Airport

LunaJets

Red Savannah

Scott Dunn

Black Tomato

Audley Travel

Turquoise Holidays

Viking Cruises

Kempinski

Hong Kong International Airport

Carnival Corporation

Deutsche Lufthansa

LVMH

Royal Caribbean Cruises.

For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/an1tlf

About ResearchAndMarkets.com

ResearchAndMarkets.com is the world's leading source for international market research reports and market data. We provide you with the latest data on international and regional markets, key industries, the top companies, new products and the latest trends.