Title: The Brightline Orlando Premium Lounge: Is it Worth the Splurge?
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2024/03/15/the-brightline-orlando-premium-lounge-is-it-worth-the-splurge/
--------------------------------------------------

5.7K

On our first two trips with Virgin Voyages, which departed from the Port of Miami, we opted to drive from Orlando the day before our cruise. Driving to your port has advantages over flying, as you don’t have to worry about the weight of your luggage or packing travel-size toiletries. However, parking at the port is an added expense, especially for cruises that are longer than a weekend.

For our most recent cruise, we took a different approach and took the Brightline train from Orlando Airport to Miami. We splurged and upgraded to Premium Class, which includes a larger seat on the train, free drinks and snacks onboard, and access to the Premium Lounge. A one-way premium ticket from Orlando to Miami ranges in cost from $139 to $299.

I didn’t get to spend as much time in the lounge as planned because I had to drive home to get my passport, which I left on my desk. Sharon helped by taking most of the lounge pictures.

Brightline Orlando Premium Lounge

There are no illusions here; this isn’t the KrisFlyer Lounge at Changi Airport or the Lufthansa First Class Terminal. However, it is a nice place to wait for your train. There was no fighting for seats, and we easily grabbed a corner for our group.

The first decision to make was what to drink. Alcoholic beverages are not complimentary in the lounge. The bar is self-serve and has scanners on the wall. Initially, you need to register with your ID and a credit card, but after that, you can unlock the tap with your phone.

Soft drinks were free in the lounge, along with Lavazza Coffee. “No Coke, Pepsi.”

There were plenty of food options, from pastry items to meats, cheeses, salads, and the random chafing dishes of hot foods—pretty much everything you’d expect from lounge food.

There are monitors in the lounge area to let passengers know the status of upcoming trains. As the only route served is on the way to Miami, there’s no confusion about how to get to the train.

Final Thought

The Premium Lounge at the Orlando Brightline Station is a benefit of purchasing a premium-class ticket. If you have access to the lounge, you can enjoy free non-alcoholic drinks and a decent selection of snacks before your trip. Although the lounge provides comfortable seating, charging ports that actually work, and snacks, it’s not an extraordinary experience. The station offers a variety of seating options even if you don’t have access to the lounge, and there are also places to buy food and drinks.

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!