Title: Review: Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class (SIN-HKT)
Source: Youngtravelershongkong.com
URL: https://youngtravelershongkong.com/2024/09/singapore-airlines-737-max-business/
--------------------------------------------------

In February 2024, I flew Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAX business class from Singapore to Phuket. This was my first time flying Singapore Airlines’ business class out of Singapore (I’d flown it once from Barcelona to Milan, where the product is considerably watered down ahead of the much longer leg from Milan to Singapore), and my first time on a 737 MAX. I was very excited for this flight, and was also curious to know what this new business class product was like, since it was only introduced in late 2021.

So how was it? I enjoyed my flight in Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAX business class, and would say that this is one of the best regional business class seats in the world. However, I still generally prefer the passenger experience on a widebody aircraft, especially since Singapore Airlines operates some regionally-outfitted 787s and A350s also with a lie-flat seat.

Here’s my review, where I’ll detail the seat, amenities, service, and their Book The Cook meal service, which I took advantage of.

Booking Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class

I booked a one-way ticket in Singapore Airlines business class from Singapore to Phuket using 40,000 KrisFlyer miles and 64.20 SGD (£37.5/HK$383) in taxes. Funny story – this was the only flight showing as a 737 MAX 8 for my day of departure, and saver business class award space wasn’t available. I was willing to part with 16,000 extra KrisFlyer miles to try the airline’s new business class seat, so I could review it on this 1h 50m flight. Go figure that the airline’s 6:50 AM service to Phuket was also swapped to a 737 MAX 8 a few months after I booked – saver award space for that flight would’ve cost 24,000 KrisFlyer miles.

Singapore Airlines is notoriously stingy when it comes to releasing award space to partner airlines, though I generally credit most Star Alliance flights to KrisFlyer, so had no issue sourcing miles to book this segment (if I did, I would’ve been able to transfer from AmEx at a 3:2 ratio). My itinerary was as follows:

12/02 SQ726 Singapore – Phuket dep. 08:25 arr. 09:15 [Business Class]

Singapore Airlines Business Class Ground Experience

I was having trouble adjusting to jetlag after flying far too many flights (Norwegian from London to Stockholm, then KLM to Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, then Batik Air Malaysia to Singapore), so struggled to sleep during my evening at the 21 Carpenter Hotel in Singapore. At that point I figured I might as well head early to Changi Airport, so I got there at 5:30 AM. I then spent time at Singapore Airlines’ brand new Terminal 3 business class lounge, followed by their Terminal 2 lounge, where my flight was departing.

We were boarding from gate F52. Changi Airport clears security at each individual gate (except at Terminal 4), so I headed to the gate area just before 7:30 AM, where there was a separate priority queue. I arrived just early enough to see another 737 MAX push back before flying to Medan.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX at Changi Airport

Before boarding, a gate agent came around to everyone holding carry-ons (including me), asking if they were willing to gate-check their bags as the flight was “very full”. After slightly awkwardly mentioning that I was in business class, she said “oh okay okay”, then left.

There was a separate boarding lane for business class passengers and PPS Club members.

Singapore Airlines Gate Area at Changi Airport T2

Boarding began at 8 AM, starting with families with young children and infirm passengers, before business class was boarded. There were quite a few families onboard this leisure route to Phuket, so I apologise for the lack of good cabin pictures.

We were flying 9V-MBN, a 4.5-year-old 737 MAX 8 delivered to Singapore Airlines in March 2022. Funnily enough the aircraft was originally outfitted with recliner business class seats as if it were going to fly for Silkair, though once the Silkair brand was folded into Singapore Airlines, the aircraft was reconfigured with Singapore Airlines’ new regional business class seats in April 2022.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX at Changi Airport

I was excited to hop onboard Singapore Airlines’ business class!

Singapore Airlines Flight SQ726

Monday, February 12, 2024

Origin: Singapore (SIN) T: 2 Gate: F52 Dep: 08:25 (08:25)

Destination: Phuket (HKT) Gate: 10 Arr: 09:15 (09:15)

Duration: 1 h 50 min (1 h 50 min)

Aircraft: Boeing 737 MAX 8 Reg: 9V-MBN

Seat: 12J (Business Class)

Upon boarding, I was welcomed by cabin crew, handed a pair of earbuds (which are given to all passengers), and pointed to my seat 12J.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Cabin and Seat

Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAXs feature 10 business class seats in a staggered configuration. These are Thompson Vantage seats – many airlines use this as their longhaul seat (EVA Air and Swiss come to mind), though Singapore Airlines chose this seat to be a purely regional seat on some of their shortest flights.

The first and third rows (rows 11 and 14) are laid out in a 2-2 configuration, and the second row features two throne seats.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Cabin

The finishes feel sleek and sports car-esque, if not slightly less cosy than the airline’s widebody business class configurations.

In general I’d consider the “pair” seats inferior in this configuration, as there’s much less storage, and window seat passengers don’t get direct aisle access. However, on this leisure route to Phuket, these seats were good for couples or families travelling on a family holiday. Due to the console in between, you do get some privacy if you’re seated here next to a stranger.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Pair Seats

My family was already in Phuket, having flown a far less ridiculous itinerary from Hong Kong. So, instead of a +1, I gave myself direct aisle access. I chose seat 12J, a “throne” seat in this configuration. As you can see, these seats are significantly more spacious than the “pair” seats in front and behind, at least by the shoulders.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Throne Seat 12J

There’s a crazy amount of countertop space between the seat and the window.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Countertop Space

Then there’s another side table with a cup indent to the left of my seat, with the simple seat controls featured below.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Table Space and Seat Controls

Also special to the two throne seats in this configuration is a storage cubby, good for a camera, amenity kit, laptop, or other small items.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Cupboard

Then by my feet was yet another storage compartment, situated above the life vest.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Storage

Meanwhile, all seats feature a little storage nook fit for a phone, passport or AirPods, as well as a similarly sized nook tucked under the TV (I wouldn’t recommend putting a passport in the latter compartment, as you’d potentially forget it). These were the only storage options available for the paired seats in this configuration. As you can see, all seats feature a USB power port, and not pictured is a 110V universal power port below the seat.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Charging and Storage (at All Seats)

There’s also a literature pocket, which in this case housed the menu.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Seat Pocket

Now, it is worth noting that the throne seats in this configuration have one major disadvantage, which is that the foot cubby is significantly smaller than what you’d find in virtually any other business class seat. I’ve attached a picture below where you can see my size 9 feet struggling to get comfortable in the foot cubby.

Singapore Airlines’ longest 737 MAX route is a redeye flight to Busan, running at 6 hours. Even at that length I wouldn’t see a huge issue with getting comfortable in this seat, unless you were really sensitive to foot space.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Footwell

From the console on the left, a large and relatively sturdy tray table folded out.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Bi-Fold Tray Table

Then in front of the seat was a touchscreen TV, featuring the airline’s award-winning KrisWorld entertainment system. You could even connect your phone to use a remote if you wished, though there was also a touchscreen remote by the left of the seat.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Entertainment

Lastly, as a narrowbody aircraft, this plane featured air nozzles – not one, not two, but three!

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Air Nozzles

This is easily the world’s best regional narrowbody business class seat. The Thompson Vantage seat has its quirks, though none of those quirks are much of an issue on a narrowbody flight. I was glad to have a throne seat with so much in-seat storage, though realistically you can’t go wrong with any seat on a sub-2 hour flight in this configuration (or even the 6-hour redeye flight to Busan).

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Amenities

Waiting at my seat was a pillow and blanket. Both of these were more than substantial for a sub-2 hour flight, and the blanket reminded me of Qatar Airways’ longhaul business class blanket.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Pillow and Blanket

There was also a pair of Phitek-style headphones, in addition to the earbuds passed out to all passengers. These headphones were obviously a lot more high-quality than the earbuds, and I quite like them.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Headphones

There isn’t an amenity kit on this flight, though otherwise the amenities are really nice on this short flight.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Pre-Departure Service

As aforementioned, there was a menu waiting at my seat pocket upon boarding.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Menu

Everyone boards through the front door on narrowbody flights, so serving anything during the boarding process is usually quite chaotic. The crew managed to do a drinks run during the boarding process, where I could choose between water, apple juice, orange juice, and champagne – I chose apple juice.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Pre-Departure Beverage

They also addressed me by name, welcomed me onto the flight, and acknowledged that I had pre-ordered a meal through Book The Cook. However, while the crew were especially chirpy to couples travelling together, they didn’t really engage in conversation with me, and just seemed to go through the motions.

Departing from Changi Airport

The boarding process was efficient, and this packed 737 MAX 8 was boarded in 15 minutes. As you’d expect for a flight to Phuket during Lunar New Year, the flight was packed, with every seat taken in both classes.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Cabin Post-Boarding

The safety video played, which was the new safety video Singapore Airlines released earlier in the year.

Singapore Airlines Safety Video

It was a rainy morning in Singapore, so there wasn’t a huge amount in the way of views as we taxied out to runway 02C. Terminal 2 isn’t far away from runway 02C and requires quite a straightforward taxi, so the whole process took less than 15 minutes.

Views during Takeoff from Changi Airport (or Lack Thereof)

Soon we were rocketing out of rainy Singapore to get to sunny Phuket!

Takeoff from Changi Airport

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Bed

The seatbelt sign was turned off around seven minutes after takeoff, and at that time I decided to check out the seat in bed mode. As noted earlier, due to the footwell, this isn’t a particularly spacious seat; however, I couldn’t imagine complaining with the short flights that this plane operates. There was a reasonable amount of shoulder space as well.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Bed

Keep in mind that these seats easily turn into a fully flat bed, whereas you’re unlikely to be able to enjoy the seat in bed mode if you’re flying a longhaul Singapore Airlines aircraft on a shorthaul flight (this doesn’t apply to their 787s and regional A350s, which also have seats that recline directly into a flat bed). Those seats need to be manually turned over into bed mode, which not many may choose to do on a flight of this length.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class WiFi

Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAXs feature WiFi, and delightfully WiFi is free for all KrisFlyer members, as well as everyone in business class. Speeds were good throughout the flight, and clocked in at 7.83 Mbps down and 4.84 Mbps up during my flight.

If you’re a non-KrisFlyer member in economy class, WiFi on Singapore Airlines is priced as follows:

A 1-hour Surf plan costs US$3.99 (£3.04/HK$31)

A 3-hour Surf plan costs US$8.99 (£6.85/HK$70)

A full flight plan costs US$15.99 (£12.18/HK$125)

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Lavatory

737 MAX lavatories are notoriously small, and this was no exception on this Singapore Airlines aircraft. It did feature some Penhaligon toiletries, though hand soap was “standard” – only branded lotion was provided.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Lavatory

Singapore Airlines Business Class Shorthaul Meal Service and Book-The-Cook

On this 1h 50m flight, the crew spared no time ensuring that passengers had the most time possible to enjoy their meal. The crew began by helping all passengers open up their tray tables, around 10 minutes after takeoff.

For reference, the breakfast menu on this flight read as follows:

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Menu

The wine list read as follows:

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Drinks Menu

There would’ve also been a drinks menu, though for some reason I didn’t take a photo of it. Here’s an equivalent I took on a previous Singapore Airlines business class flight:

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Drinks List

And if you’re curious, the menu on the return lunchtime flight to Singapore was as follows:

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Menu

This is a very substantial food and drinks selection on a 1h 50m flight, and the drinks selection is particularly impressive.

Not only that, but Singapore Airlines’ signature Book The Cook service was also available on this segment. Book The Cook allows you to pre-select from a wide range of inflight meals starting from time of booking until 24 hours before departure. Apart from minimising waste, you also get the flexibility of choosing from a huge menu that you wouldn’t find inflight.

Singapore Airlines is known for their satay service, and I knew that they didn’t do an “amuse bouche” satay service on shorthaul flights. So I was excited to see the option of Singaporean style chicken satay on the menu, which was served with nasi himpit and was very tasty.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Book-The-Cook Meal

I ordered a double espresso, which was available on this Singapore Airlines 737 MAX. However, upon hearing the couple in front of me joke about ordering champagne for breakfast on holiday, I couldn’t resist a glass of Piper-Heidsieck Brut Vintage along with it.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Coffee and Champagne

After the meal service I had a chance to check out this intimate 737 MAX business class cabin from the back.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Cabin

This is a stellar meal service onboard such a short flight, and Singapore Airlines’ Book-The-Cook service brings it over the top, in my opinion. It was so great to not only have a very tasty meal with a plethora of drinks options, but also to be able to order from such a wide range of items before my flight. The onboard options looked quite good for a breakfast flight as well.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Service

As aforementioned, the crew were polished, but showed favouritism to couples travelling together. They were courteous, and addressed me by name during most “planned” interactions such as confirming my meal choice. They also helped all passengers open their tray tables, lay out tablecloths, etc.. However, otherwise they didn’t seem particularly keen to interact with solo travellers.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Entertainment System

Singapore Airlines’ award-winning KrisWorld entertainment system was available onboard this short flight, and you could even connect to your phone to use it as a remote.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Entertainment System

There was also a live TV section.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Entertainment System

The entertainment system featured quite a few “views”, though as is standard for a 737 MAX, didn’t feature any cameras.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Airshow

Along with the entertainment system and free WiFi, you won’t get bored in Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAX business class.

Landing into Phuket Airport

I tried to catch a brief nap after the meal service, and before I knew it we were about to land into Phuket. The captain made an announcement over the PA that we were slated to land in 25 minutes, and the seatbelt sign was turned on not long after.

We had views of Kamara Bay as we headed out over Thailand’s west coast into the Andaman Sea.

Crossing the Coastline into Phuket Airport

In case you were interested in how large a 737 MAX is, according to the airshow, a 737 MAX is about the size of Phuket Island.

Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class Airshow (with 737 MAX the size of Phuket Island)

We then did a 180° turn rightward so we could land on Phuket’s eastward-facing Runway 09.

Landing at Phuket Airport

At 9:10 AM local time, we touched down at Phuket Airport, and had a very quick taxi to gate 10.

Taxiing at Phuket Airport

Since it was early, immigration took no time at all, which I was grateful for – I’ve heard that immigration at Phuket Airport gets significantly more crowded during the later hours of the morning.

Conclusion: Singapore Airlines 737 MAX Business Class

Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAX features an impressive regional narrowbody business class. In a market where many airlines in Asia still have recliner business class seats, Singapore Airlines features flatbed business class seats on all but six of their aircraft (their non-MAX 737s). Along with a very impressive soft product to boot, with great amenities, endless entertainment and free WiFi, and a Book The Cook pre-order meal service to boot, this is easily one of the most competitive business class products in the region, let alone the world.

However, I’d say that the 737 MAX has size limitations in terms of having the best onboard experience. On the plus side, these seats do recline directly into a flat bed, whereas business class seats on their longhaul aircraft need to be manually folded over into a flat bed – you’re more likely to be able to enjoy the flat bed on a 737 MAX or a regional 787 on a flight of this length. However, this is Singapore Airlines’ only fully flat business class product where not every seat has direct aisle access, boarding is more chaotic, and service is less personalised, especially on shorter flights. I’d probably be keen to try Singapore Airlines’ 787 business class, with a widebody business class product specifically designed for their short-to-medium haul flights (I’d also like to fly their longhaul business class, in fact, as I’ve never flown it).

Overall, I probably would pick a widebody Singapore Airlines aircraft over this one if flying their business class, though I’d fly Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAX business class in a heartbeat again in any other circumstance.