Title: United Announces Flights to Marrakesh, Cebu, and Medellin
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/united-announces-flights-to-marrakesh-cebu-and-medellin/
--------------------------------------------------

United Airlines dropped an Indiana Jones-esque teaser video yesterday with subtle hints around the three new routes it would announce today. The news is out and United is adding Marrakesh Menara Airport (RAK), Mactan-Cebu International Airport (CEB), and Medellin’s Jose Maria Cordova International Airport (MDE) to its route map.

There was a lot of speculation yesterday around where United would fly next and I feel that this trio of destinations are pretty exciting additions.

https://twitter.com/united/status/1765725676483567805?s=20

Marrakesh Menara Airport (RAK)

On October 24th, United will fly 3x weekly from Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) The flight will be offered on a Boeing 767-300ER aircraft with 46 Polaris® (Business Class), 22 Premium Plus®, 43 Economy Plus, and 56 Economy Class seats. This will be United’s fifth destination in Africa as it already serves Accra’s Kotoka International Airport (ACC), Lagos’ Murtala Muhammed International Airport (LAG), Cape Town International Airport (CPT), and Johannesburg’s O. R. Tambo International Airport (JNB). Air Transat will also launch a seasonal service to Marrakesh from Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport (YUL) June 2024.

Mactan-Cebu International Airport (CEB)

United will expands its presence in the Philippines daily, nonstop service from Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT), which starts on July 31st. United will use a 737-800 aircraft and be the only US carrier that serves Cebu. United also holds this distinction with its current daily flights between San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and Manila’s Ninoy Aquino International Airport (MNL). It also flies to Manila from Guam’s Antonio B. Won Pat International Airport (GUM) and Palau International Airport (ROR).

Jose Maria Cordova International Airport (MDE)

Nonstop flights between Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) and Medellin’s Jose Maria Cordova International Airport (MDE) will start daily on October 27th with a Boeing 737 aircraft (United did not specify type). This new route expands United’s presence in Colombia as it currently flies to Bogota’s El Dorado International Airport. United will serve 52 destinations in Latin America from Houston with this addition.

In addition to the new routes, United is continuing to beef up its international offerings with increased capacity and new flights on several routes. These include:

A second daily flight between Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) will launch on October 26th.

A second daily flight between San Francisco International Airport (SFO) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) on October 25th.

A new flight between Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND) and Guam’s Antonio B. Won Pat International Airport (GUM) (launching in May).

Service between Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Shanghai Pudong International Airport (PVG) will relaunch 4x weekly on August 29th with a Boeing 787-9 aircraft.

A second daily flight between Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) and Porto’s Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport (OPO) on May 23rd (I had previously written about this here).

Anthony’s Take: I have never been to any of these three cities and feel they all are exciting additions to United’s network. This carrier has by far the most exciting routes and it continues to connect the world each year with more great additions. Kudos, UA.

(Image Credits: United Airlines.)