Title: Strong Argument for Cameras Emerges in Jet Crash Probes, IATA Chief Says
Source: Insurance Journal
URL: https://www.insurancejournal.com/news/international/2025/07/16/831853.htm
--------------------------------------------------

The installation of cockpit cameras would greatly help aviation safety authorities investigating accidents like the recent fatal Air India crash, according to the head of the International Air Transport Association.

“On a personal basis, I can see that there is a strong argument now for the inclusion of video,” Director General Willie Walsh said in Singapore on Wednesday. “Based on what little we know now, it’s quite possible that a video recording, in addition to the voice recording, would significantly assist the investigators.”

The idea of cockpit cameras has been fiercely debated for decades, but has been thrust into the spotlight once again in the wake of last month’s Air India crash in Ahmedabad. A preliminary report into the accident that killed 260 people on board the Boeing Co. 787 aircraft and on the ground revealed that the fuel-supply switches were switched off — dooming the jet almost immediately after takeoff.

Authorities have so far only released a short transcript that shows one pilot asking his colleague why he turned off the fuel supply, to which the second pilot answered he had not.

It isn’t clear if this was the extent of the cockpit conversation, and authorities didn’t identify which pilot said what, leaving the key question of how the switches were moved to a cut-off position unanswered. Still, Walsh said the initial report was more comprehensive than expected.

Read More: Air India Crash Points to Cockpit Confusion as Fuel Flow Cut Out

Walsh, in Singapore for events including a summit on aviation safety, reiterated his optimistic outlook for the industry, which has weathered disruptions from conflicts to escalating geopolitical tensions. While some carriers have scaled back their Asian operations, only travel between the US and Canada has been significantly impacted by the Trump administration’s tariffs, according to Walsh.

IATA projects 5.8% growth in air travel demand this year. Over the longer-term, Walsh cautioned that travelers will have to pay higher fares due to the rising cost of meeting climate goals.

The cost of complying with the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation will hit $1 billion this year and balloon to about $15 billion over the next decade, Walsh said.

He pointed to Singapore’s plan to add a levy to ticket prices next year to purchase cleaner fuel as a good model for stimulating demand for sustainable aviation fuel. Other regions, like Europe, may struggle to meet their SAF goals as production remains scarce, Walsh said.

Singapore’s Changi Airport, which typically ranks as one of the world’s most popular and recently broke ground on a vast new terminal, is also an industry leader in sectors like automation, according to Walsh.

“Compared to what I see in Europe, it’s like night and day,” said Walsh, who was previously the chief executive officer of British Airways. “Aviation is truly valued in this region.”

Photograph: The crash site of Air India Flight 171 in Ahmedabad, India, on June 13, 2025; photo credit: Siddharaj Solanki/Bloomberg

Copyright 2026 Bloomberg.