Title: 3 PAP branch chairpersons in Aljunied GRC set to be replaced in 2nd reshuffle in 6 months
Source: The Online Citizen
URL: https://www.theonlinecitizen.com/2025/02/12/3-pap-branch-chairpersons-in-aljunied-grc-set-to-be-replaced-in-2nd-reshuffle-in-6-months/
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: In a shake-up within the People’s Action Party (PAP) Aljunied branch, three chairpersons are expected to be replaced as part of preparations for the upcoming General Election (GE2025).

These leadership changes follow similar shifts within the constituency in August last year, signalling a major restructuring of the party’s line-up of potential candidates who will challenge the Workers' Party (WP) team, led by Leader of the Opposition Pritam Singh, in Aljunied GRC during the upcoming GE.

According to reports from state media The Straits Times and CNA, the three chairpersons – Kenny Sim Mong Keang (沈茂强), Shamsul Kamar, and Victor Lye – are expected to step down, with fresh faces lined up to take their places.

PAP has reportedly yet to comment on the changes concerning the movements of the branch chairs.

If implemented, this will mark the second set of PAP leadership changes in Aljunied GRC within six months. It remains unclear whether the outgoing chairpersons will be reassigned to other constituencies.

As a result, the party may field an entirely new slate of candidates in the GRC for GE2025, excluding Serangoon branch chair Chan Hui Yuh.

Kaki Bukit branch chair Shamsul Kamar to be replaced by Dr Faisal Abdul Aziz

Shamsul Kamar, a former educator, who has been serving as the Kaki Bukit branch chairman since 2015, will reportedly be succeeded by Dr Faisal Abdul Aziz, the clinical director at Nuffield Dental Group.

Dr Faisal’s anticipated appointment follows his involvement in several community initiatives, including his leadership of the Health and Wellness Committee in Kaki Bukit.

The clinical director, who was recently spotted alongside Shamsul at a Chinese New Year celebration, also seen engaging with residents during the 2024 PAP party convention.

According to Dr Faisal's profile on his company’s website, he was also appointed as a member of the Mosque Management Board at Angullia Mosque.

Paya Lebar branch chair Kenny Sim to be replaced by Daniel Liu

Meanwhile, Kenny Sim, 55, who was appointed Paya Lebar branch chairman in August 2024, is also expected to step down, reportedly due to health reasons.

According to earlier reports by CNA, Sim’s ward will be handed over to Daniel Liu. Sim is a chief executive of IT reseller and distributor Serial Achieva.

Liu is the managing director of urban planning consultancy Morrow Architects and Planners and the executive director of Morrow Intelligence, a firm specializing in urban planning data analytics.

Liu also serves as the chairman of the Citizens’ Consultative Committee (CCC) for the Nee Soon East ward in Nee Soon GRC. He has been actively volunteering in Nee Soon East, represented by Member of Parliament Louis Ng, since October 2014.

Additionally, Liu is the son of former Housing Development Board (HDB) and Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) CEO Liu Thai Ker.

He is currently the organising chairman for the Springtime Splendor Chinese New Year carnival in Nee Soon.

Dr Adrian Ang to replace Victor Lye as PAP Bedok Reservoir-Punggol Branch Chairman

Lastly, Victor Lye is set to be replaced by Dr Adrian Ang, a director at the facility and environmental management company Chye Thiam Maintenance.

Dr Ang, who is the vice-chairman of Mr Lye's Bedok Reservoir-Punggol branch, has been engaging with residents through regular "coffee shop sessions," as seen in his Facebook posts.

In January, he attended the Bursary and Edusave awards ceremony in the area and organized an outing for seniors from Thye Hua Kwan Nursing Home to Jewel Changi Airport.

Dr Ang was previously involved in Toa Payoh West-Thomson, where he served as branch secretary under Transport Minister Chee Hong Tat.

Frequent leadership changes in Aljunied GRC fuel speculation on PAP’s candidate struggles

Aljunied GRC is not the only opposition-held constituency where the PAP has made leadership adjustments.

In Sengkang GRC, Bernadette Giam replaced Marcus Loh as Sengkang East branch chair last month, about a year and a half after he had taken over from his predecessor, Ling Weihong.

These leadership changes have fueled discussions among political observers and the public. Some have questioned the frequent reshuffling within PAP’s Aljunied branch, speculating that the ruling party may be struggling to find strong candidates to challenge the WP stronghold.

Critics have likened PAP’s potential candidates to a "suicide squad" when contesting the incumbent WP team, with some suggesting that failing to field its best candidates in Aljunied could be seen as an implicit admission of defeat.

PAP Aljunied BranchChairpersons Before August 2024 ReshuffleChairpersons After August 2024 ReshufflePotential Chairpersons Line-up for a Possible 2nd ReshuffleKaki BukitShamsul KamarShamsul KamarDr Faisal Abdul AzizPaya LebarAlex YeoKenny SimDaniel LiuBedok Reservoir-PunggolVictor LyeVictor LyeAdrian AngEunosChua Eng LeongJagathishwaran RajoJagathishwaran RajoSerangoonChan Hui YuhChan Hui Yuh Chan Hui Yuh

PAP 'eager' to reclaim Aljunied from WP

While the PAP remains eager to reclaim Aljunied from the WP with GE2025 approaching, no heavyweights or ministerial-caliber candidates have been fielded.