Title: Inside the secret world of the luxury airport lounge—and how to get in
Source: National Geographic
URL: https://www.nationalgeographic.com/travel/article/best-airport-lounges-in-the-world
--------------------------------------------------

As flight delays and disruptions become more frequent, layovers can make a traveler’s time in the airport seem extremely long. However, luxurious airport lounges are reshaping the narrative of a layover. These sanctuaries defy expectations. They transform airports from crossroads into destinations, inviting the few who gain access a place to pause and relax despite an unexpected travel blunder.

For many travelers, airport lounges remain an exclusive VIP experience. Beyond the food courts and duty-free aisles lie extraordinary spaces with elite amenities, luxurious design, and curated cuisine. These world-class lounges remind us that the journey can be as memorable as the destination. Here are nine of the world’s most remarkable airport lounges, and how you can gain access.

(The unexpected natural wonders near America's busiest airports.)

1. PS, Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), California

PS offers access to the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) without requiring you to set foot inside the airport itself. Travelers completely avoid the public terminal. They are ushered into a waiting BMW from the plane door and chauffeured across the tarmac to a private building removed from the main airport, complete with its own customs and immigration processing. Air travelers hand over their ID and luggage, and PS handles logistics while guests sample their signature caviar service.

If you opt for a reservation in one of their 12 private suites, you and your party will have a designated space with your own wet bar, marble-clad restroom, and a server who can bring you anything from a full menu of food and drinks. The Salon is a semi-private lounge that you share with other passengers, but provides the same effortless experience.

Good to know: While PS is open to any traveler, regardless of airline or ticket class, this elevated service doesn’t come cheap. A Private Suite costs around $4,850 per visit for up to four travelers, while access to The Salon is approximately $1,095 per person.

(A guide to Los Angeles, the cinematic Californian city with Latin American roots.)

2. Japan Airlines First Class Lounge, Narita International Airport (NRT), Tokyo

Japan Airlines’ First Class Lounge at Narita Airport is a minimalist retreat created by designer Ryu Kosaka. Decorative dividers enhanced with cherry blossom and crane motifs. Its standout feature is a live sushi bar, Sushi Tsurutei, where chefs prepare nigiri to order from seasonal fish flown in daily alongside three seasonal sakes from Hasegawa Saketen. A whiskey bar showcases Japan’s celebrated distillery culture, inviting guests to sample rare labels before their departure. Beyond dining, the lounge offers shower suites, massage chairs, and quiet workspaces, all accented with understated Japanese design. On the lounge’s fifth floor, rows of massage chairs, tucked away from the dining and social spaces, offer travelers shiatsu-style kneading and targeted massages for your back and feet.

Good to know: Japan Airlines’ first-class passengers and the airline’s top elite members, Japan Airlines Mileage Bank Diamond and Japan Airlines Global Club Premier, can access the lounge, along with eligible Oneworld first-class and Emerald-tier passengers.

(Everything you need to know for the perfect Tokyo trip.)

3. Turkish Airlines Business Class Lounge, Istanbul Airport (IST), Turkey

The Turkish Airlines Business Class Lounge at Istanbul Airport is a sprawling 103,333-square-foot lounge, designed to accommodate up to 720 travelers. It offers a tea garden as well as cooking stations serving local favorites. Turkish Airlines’ Chief Operations Officer, Mr. M. Akif Konar, explains that the extensive Turkish culinary offerings are often the highlight of the experience. “Our guests can watch our chefs prepare regional specialties like mantı (dumplings) and pide (Turkish flatbread) at live cooking stations, or sample more than 40 varieties of mezze and desserts, all made fresh throughout the day.”

For entertainment, step into a VR flight simulator, test your skills in a golf simulator, or experience a Carrera racing simulation set around models of the Istanbul must-see sights. In the main lounge, roaming masseurs offer shoulder massages, and shower suites are also available.

Good to know: The Business Lounge is available to Turkish Airlines or Star Alliance Airlines Business Class passengers.

(Why Türkiye’s Black Sea coast is the Mediterranean alternative to visit in 2026.)

4. Al Safwa First Class Lounge, Hamad International Airport (HIA), Doha, Qatar

Walking into the Al Safwa First Class Lounge feels like stepping into a cultural institution. The design of Qatar’s Museum of Islamic Art inspired the lounge’s atrium and the galleries with curated artwork. A private soak in the thermal Jacuzzi room is complimentary, though it often requires a wait. Located in a quiet corridor, the sleeping rooms in this lounge resemble boutique hotel accommodations rather than airport pods. Each room has a full bed, fresh linens, a writing desk, ambient lighting, and its own ensuite bathroom. The lounge offers these rooms to travelers with long connections.

Good to know: Al Safwa First Class Lounge is exclusively accessible to travelers flying in First Class with Qatar Airways, Oneworld First Class passengers, and Privilege Club Platinum members flying Business Class with Qatar Airways.

5. Lufthansa First Class Terminal, Frankfurt Airport (FRA), Germany

In Frankfurt, Lufthansa operates not just a lounge but an entire 20,000-square-foot terminal dedicated to first-class passengers. Travelers arrive at a private entrance, welcomed curbside by a valet parking attendant, and greeted by a personal assistant who accompanies them through a dedicated check-in and security process. Inside, the space resembles a boutique hotel: leather armchairs, quiet relaxation rooms, shower suites with full bathtubs, and a cigar lounge. When boarding time approaches, a personal escort drives passengers in a luxury car across the tarmac to their plane.

The bar at Lufthansa’s First Class Terminal has an extensive list of spirits found in an airport lounge, including more than 130 different whiskeys sourced from around the world as well as single-malt Scotch, small-batch American bourbons, and rare Japanese whiskeys. To relax, take a turn in the soaking tub, making sure to ask an attendant for one of the lounge’s limited-edition rubber ducks as a keepsake.

Good to know: Access is available to first-class passengers arriving, departing, or connecting to a flight operated by Lufthansa, Swiss, or Discover Airlines.

6. The Private Room, Singapore Changi Airport (SIN)

Hidden within Singapore Airlines’ SilverKris complex at Singapore Changi Airport, The Private Room is an exclusive enclave designed for fewer than 80 guests at a time. The experience begins at a dedicated airport check-in area that offers private immigration channels. From there, a short elevator ride and a quick walk through the first-class lounge reveal a frosted glass door discreetly marked: The Private Room.

The Vice President of Public Relations at Singapore Airlines, James Boyd, says, “The best part of The Private Room experience is its quiet sense of ease. Whether you’re savoring a multi-course meal prepared à la minute, relaxing in a day room with a Tempur Zero Gravity bed, or enjoying a handcrafted cocktail beneath custom Lalique lighting, the environment feels deeply restorative.”

Good to know: Access is strictly limited to Singapore Airlines First Class and Suites passengers.

(Singapore has a unique idea for tourism: Focus on your mental health.)

7. Cathay Pacific The Pier First Class Lounge, Hong Kong International Airport (HKG), China

The Pier First Class is Cathay Pacific’s flagship lounge. You can use your exclusive access to experience any of the six lounges at the Hong Kong International Airport. The Pier is further back in Terminal 1 near Gate 63, close to the long-haul departure area. This immersive space has a signature scent of bamboo and jasmine, wafting through air, and has a spa that offers complimentary quick treatments, including a 15-minute neck and shoulder massage, a foot reflexology session, or a brief eye revitalizer treatment. A ‘grab and go’ pantry of treats is available if you’re in a rush to catch your flight; if you’re not in a hurry, head to the dining room for a full-service dining experience, featuring a seasonal tasting menu curated in partnership with Hong Kong’s Mott 32. The award-winning restaurant brand offers dishes such as hand-wrapped Sichuan-style pork dumplings in chilli oil, braised Wagyu beef with aged tangerine peel, and crispy black cod.

Good to know: To access this lounge, travelers must be a first-class passenger on a departing flight operated by Cathay Pacific or another Oneworld airline, or hold Oneworld top-tier Emerald status.

(Six ways to explore Hong Kong's adventurous side.)

8. SWISS First Class Lounge, Zurich Airport (ZRH), Switzerland

Located in Terminal E of Zurich Airport, the SWISS First Class Lounge has the feel of an upscale hotel. Its amenities include private day rooms with Hästens beds, rain showers, and a wine humidor. The lounge’s outdoor terrace, outfitted with Leica binoculars, is perched above the terminal, offering panoramic views of the runway and the Alps beyond. In the summer, the terrace becomes a sunlit escape where guests can sip chilled wine as planes taxi below, and in winter, blankets and heaters ensure the space remains cozy and inviting. While there is also a SWISS First Class Lounge in Terminal A, that lounge, meant for Schengen short-haul travelers, does not have a terrace or private day rooms.

Both have exceptional service. For example,when a lounge guest’s departure time approaches, a staff member personally escorts them to their gate or, in some cases, directly across the tarmac in a chauffeured car.

Good to know: In Zurich Airport, one lounge is located in Terminal A and the other in Terminal E. The lounges are open to first-class guests departing or connecting to a Swiss or Lufthansa flight on the same day. Lounge access is also available to HON Circle travelers who have frequent flyer status in the Miles & More program.

(How to spend the perfect day in Switzerland's underrated financial capital.)

9. Chase Sapphire Lounge, San Diego International (SAN), California

Not every standout lounge requires a first-class ticket or elite airline status. Senior Vice President of Design and Construction at Airport Dimensions, Laura Banse, believes the 10,000-square-foot Chase Sapphire Lounge, located in Terminal 2 of San Diego International Airport, is an accessible respite for layover passengers. “Travel is inherently stressful, and we are adamant about providing a space where any traveler—regardless of the airline they fly or the ticket they hold—can rest, recharge, and feel cared for,” she says.

The lounge’s highlight is its spa room, which offers complimentary 15-minute facials provided by Face Haus. Guests walk out with a skincare kit to take home. In the rest pods, on-demand digital meditations are available from holistic wellness influencer Devi Brown. The lounge’s menu reflects San Diego’s food culture, including local favorites such as fresh seafood from Oscar’s Mexican Seafood, available à la carte. An LED vapor fireplace evokes the feeling of beachside fire pits found throughout the city. The décor also includes surfboard art by local muralist Hanna Daly.

Banse shared that her goal was to create a genuine sense of place. She explains, “It reflects the local identity, in this case, the relaxed, coastal vibe of Southern California, through natural woods, an ocean-inspired color palette, and expansive windows that fill the space with beautiful natural light.”

Good to know: Chase Sapphire Reserve and J.P. Morgan Reserve cardmembers enjoy complimentary access, which also allows them to bring two guests. Priority Pass, an independent airport lounge membership program, offers members complimentary access once per calendar year, with additional visits (and any guests) priced at $75 per person.