Title: Delta Adds International Flights to Las Vegas for CES 2024
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/delta-adds-international-flights-to-las-vegas-for-ces-2024/
--------------------------------------------------

3K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Delta Air Lines will be flying some interesting routes for CES 2024 including nonstop flights to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS), Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG), and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) from Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) for a few days in January 2024.

CES, short for Consumer Electronics Show, take over Las Vegas for a week each January. It serves as a global stage for innovation in consumer technology and brings together leading companies, industry professionals, and tech journalists from around the world to showcase and explore the latest advancements in electronics and emerging technologies. I attended for 19 years and it was always exciting to see what was next. CES 2024 will run from January 9th to the 12th.

The schedule is as follows:

Flights from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS) to Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) will be flown on an Airbus A330-300 on January 6th, 7th, and 8th.

Flights from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) to Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) will be flown on an Airbus A330-300 on January 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th.

Flights from Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) will be flown on an Airbus A350-900 on January 6th, 7th, and 8th.

Flights to all three airports will be offered from Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) on January 12th and 13th.

Anthony’s Take: There are always some interesting domestic routes that pop up to coincide with CES. This is the first time I remember special international routes. Are you attending CES? What route do you wish was flown for the show?

(H/T: @IshrionA.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.