Title: BLACKPINK's Rose Goes Airport Casual in Baggy Jeans: Where to Buy
Source: Billboard
URL: http://www.billboard.com/culture/product-recommendations/blackpink-rose-baggy-jeans-buy-online-1235632844/
--------------------------------------------------

All products and services featured are independently chosen by editors. However, Billboard may receive a commission on orders placed through its retail links, and the retailer may receive certain auditable data for accounting purposes.

BLACKPINK’s Rosé has officially landed back home after visiting Los Angeles for the Oscars last week. The singer arrived at South Korea’s Incheon International Airport on Thursday (March 14) wearing oversized, baggy jeans from R13 and a tan trench coat.

The R13 Lisa Jean is currently on sale for up to 50% off at SSENSE and eBay. The jeans are made from cotton washed denim and feature the signature five-pocket design with stitching on the pockets, huge cuffs and a relaxed fit.

Rosé accessorized the look with an Yves Saint Laurent shoulder bag and Khaite sunglasses, according to the Instagram account Blackpinks.style4. She also sported an Adidas baseball cap and Adidas Samba OG sneakers ($100).

Unfortunately, the R13 Lisa Jean is sold out, but there are similar designs from the brand still available, such as the R13 Wide Leg Crossover Haven Blue jean ($595) and distressed crossover jean ($495), or the Lisa Jean in black ($595). For more baggy jeans that look similar to R13, try the RE/DONE low rider jeans (currently on sale for $207 at Revolve), the Darkpark Blue Lisa Jean (on sale for 44% off) and Frame Le Baggy jeans.

BLACKPINK is no stranger to Adidas. The K-pop group starred in the Home of Classics campaign for Adidas last year, featuring the Samba OG shoe, and has been spotted wearing Adidas multiple times.

And that’s not the only brand deal that BLACKPINK has secured in the last few years. Jisoo was recently named brand ambassador for Dyson and released an athleisure collection with Alo Yoga earlier this month.