Title: First Non-Swiss Lindt Airport Boutique To Open In Rising Singapore Market
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinrozario/2024/06/29/first-non-swiss-lindt-airport-boutique-to-open-in-rising-singapore-market/
--------------------------------------------------

Top-selling category

Given Lindt ’s global presence and premium positioning, it is a near certainty that the boutique will have instant appeal. But, according to Chandra Mahtani, head of airside concessions at CAG, confectionery is one of the top-selling categories at the airport making it highly competitive, which means that Lindt’s proposition will need to cut through with passengers: hence the Changi-exclusive items and other special products.

In Lindt’s favor is Changi’s rising traffic. Last year, passenger numbers rebounded to almost 59 million, still some way off the 68.3 million seen in 2019. This year, in the first quarter (from January to March) there were 16.5 million passenger movements, surpassing the same period in 2019 by 0.5%.

Lim Ching Kiat, CAG’s executive vice president for air hub and cargo development said that the airport had worked closely with the airlines “to reinstate flights suspended during the pandemic” and add new ones, but added: “The strong Q1 traffic performance was boosted by the hosting of many music concerts in Singapore and the relaxing of visa requirements between China and Singapore.”

Among the concert highlights were six Taylor Swift dates in early March as part of her Eras tour that sold-out. They brought in fans from across the region, as the only other Asia-Pacific dates were in Tokyo, Melbourne, and Sydney. This helped to bump up Changi's traffic.

CAG is continuing to work with airline and travel-trade partners to tap a strongly reviving travel momentum in the region and says that it is aiming to achieve 100% traffic recovery this year.

Staring April, two new passenger routes were also launched: Air Canada’s Vancouver to Singapore service, and a direct Singapore to Brussels route on Singapore Airlines. Scoot also received the delivery of its first Embraer jets in mid-April, which will enable the airline to expand its network to more regional destinations.

All this will be a boost to retailers at the airport, and give Lindt a softer landing than it might have expected at the start of its negotiations for a boutique at the airport.

The parent group Lindt & Sprüngli has its roots in Zurich, with production at 12 factories in Europe and the United States. They serve around 520 of Lindt’s own shops as well as a network of more than 100 independent distributors worldwide.