Title: Air France Makes La Première Even More Exclusive With Paid, Private Suites and Services
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-france-makes-la-premiere-even-more-exclusive-with-paid-private-suites-and-services/
--------------------------------------------------

1.9K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Air France has arguably the world’s most exclusive (and difficult to book on points) service with its La Première (First Class). From Michelin-starred dining to gorgeous on board cabins, La Première is a cut above the rest of the luxury experiences provided by global airlines today. Now, Air France is offering a new experience that will make what it currently offers more private and luxurious (with a hefty price tag for this add-on).

Passengers flying La Première from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) can opt into an experience that begins with a dedicated La Première lobby. This will be open to all La Première passengers for free and offers access to private agents to assist with all check-in and baggage needs. There will be 15 seats for passengers as well as three bookable (paid) private suites. This space will also host an arrivals lounge for La Première passengers with showers available and checked bags returned here.

La Première passengers will be escorted by staff from the check-in area along a private passageway to the dedicated La Première Lounge. The lounge offers table service with a menu designed by Alain Ducasse. A Sisley spa offers treatments and the entire lounge space measures around 10,700 square feet.

As of July 2024 (in time for the Olympics in Paris), Air France will have three personal suites (each measures around 500 square feet) for rent. Each suite will be filled with fresh flowers and will feature a spacious living area, a bedroom with a double bed, a private bathroom, and a comfortable outdoor patio.

Pricing starts at 800 euros (in addition to the thousands your ticket will cost), but these suites take the airport experience to an entirely different level. If you have the cash to spend, this is the way to truly avoid the airport crowds and relax before a flight.

As of summer 2024, Air France will have 19 Boeing 777-300 ER aircraft that offer La Première suites. These are flying between Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) and:

Abidjan’s Félix-Houphouët-Boigny International Airport (ABJ)

Dubai International Airport (DXB)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

Miami International Airport (MIA)

New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO)

São Paulo/Guarulhos–Governor André Franco Montoro International Airport (GRU)

Singapore Changi Airport (SIN)

Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND)

Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD)

Anthony’s Take: Flying La Première is on my bucket list. Some day, some way I’ll experience this incredible offering.

(Image Credits: Air France.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.