Title: A Closer Look at Stray Kids in Tommy Hilfiger’s ‘American Cool’ Preppy Met Gala Outfit: See the Sketches
Source: WWD
URL: http://wwd.com/fashion-news/fashion-scoops/stray-kids-tommy-hilfiger-met-gala-1236354802/
--------------------------------------------------

Stray Kids have made Met Gala history with Tommy Hilfiger, becoming the first K-pop group to attend the high-profile annual fashion event.

The eight-member group stepped out on the red carpet together wearing Tommy Hilfiger overcoats before revealing their individual looks underneath. Each custom outfit channeled ’s “Classic American Cool” style in preppy tuxedo-inspired looks. The gala’s dress code, “The Garden of Time,” was rendered through floral design details including gold blazer buttons, lapel pins and embroidery. The overarching sartorial color palette for the group was red, white and blue, a nod to the Tommy Hilfiger brand’s DNA.

“We’ve designed a cohesive, yet distinctively personalized ensemble for each member, reflecting their different personalities while staying true to our signature red, white, and blue color palette,” said the designer.

Anticipation for a potential Stray Kids Met Gala moment began building several days ago, when they were spotted arriving at the Incheon International Airport in Korea — all dressed in Tommy Hilfiger.

Stray Kids — composed of members Bang Chan, Lee Know, Changbin, Hyunjin, Han, Felix, Seungmin, and I.N — also appear in Hilfiger’s spring 2024 campaign. “We’ve been fans of Tommy Hilfiger since we were kids and we’re thrilled to continue this partnership,” the group said in an earlier statement revealing the campaign.

Individual members have established fashion partnerships apart from the group. Last summer, Felix was named a brand ambassador for Louis Vuitton and Hyunjin was tapped by Versace.

The band was formed by JYP Entertainment through a reality show in 2017, and released their first EP in January 2018. “Rock Star,” their most recent album, was released in November 2023 and became their fourth consecutive album to top the Billboard 200 list.