Title: There will be a Disney Cruise Line-themed fireworks sky show at Marina Bay in March
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/entertainment/disney-adventure-cruise-fireworks-sky-show-singapore-marina-bay-578696
--------------------------------------------------

With the Disney Adventure cruise officially setting sail from Singapore, fans can also look forward to other Disney-themed activities to celebrate the occasion. In addition to the themed Wonderfall show at Changi Airport Terminal 2, you've also got a themed fireworks sky show where you can unleash your inner child.

Happening at the Marina Bay precinct from Mar 13 to 15, the 10-minute showcase will start at 8.30pm each night and comprises fireworks and 1,500 drones, which can be seen all around Marina Bay, set to iconic tunes from Disney movies, including When You Wish Upon A Star from Pinocchio and Let It Go from Frozen.

In a statement, Sarah Fox, vice president and regional general manager (Southeast Asia) of Disney Cruise Line, said: “Disney Cruise Line marks a defining milestone with the Disney Adventure arriving in Singapore, where Disney’s timeless stories and characters are brought to life through a unique cruise vacation experience.

“We are thrilled to join and be part of the iconic Marina Bay cityscape, bringing joy and happiness to guests and Disney fans of all ages. This spectacular sky show truly encapsulates the spirit of the Disney Adventure – through fantasy, imagination, discovery, and adventure – and is a testament to the start of more meaningful collaborations throughout Singapore.”

From now till Apr 30, you can also head to seven locations across Marina Bay for fun photo opportunities inspired by the themed areas on board the Disney Adventure cruise: UOB Main Branch, Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay, Gardens by the Bay, JW Marriott Hotel Singapore South Beach, One Fullerton, Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay and Swissotel The Stamford.

UOB customers who visit these locations can take part in interactive quests and collect limited-edition Disney Adventure-inspired medallions. If they spend S$100 or more at these locations (excluding UOB Main Branch) with a UOB card, they will also be entered into a lucky draw, with the grand prize being a three-night stay aboard the Disney Adventure.

The experience extends online too. In March, UOB TMRW will roll out a Disney Cruise Line-themed in-app game under its Rewards+ tab for customers across Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam. Players can tap on virtual medallions to rack up points, with additional points awarded for banking transactions made via the app. After seven weeks, the top scorer from each market will walk away with a three-night cruise holiday on the Disney Adventure.