Title: Five of the top 10 most expensive cities to live in are in Europe—with four in Switzerland
Source: Fortune
URL: https://fortune.com/europe/2024/10/02/most-expensive-cities-to-live-in-switzerland/
--------------------------------------------------

As living expenses continue to rise, some cities are feeling the pinch more than others, driving up the costs of rent, food, and utilities to unprecedented levels. According to Mercer’s latest ranking, these are the ten most expensive cities to make your home.

Hong Kong, Hong Kong (SAR)

Hong Kong, Singapore, and Zurich remain the most expensive cities, retaining their top spots in Mercer’s cost-of-living rankings from 2023. Given Hong Kong’s small area, affordable housing is hard to find. Owning and driving a car in Hong Kong isn’t a good idea, either, since parking is both expensive and limited.

Despite high living costs, Hong Kong still offers a great quality of life, thanks to its efficient transportation system, great food options, and attractions. Outdoorsy travelers can explore the Hong Kong Trail and Victoria Peak and visit Bruce Lee’s statue along Tsim Sha Tsui’s Avenue of Stars.

Singapore, Singapore

Singapore is next on the list of the most expensive cities. Garden City rentals are among the most expensive in the world. Living costs for a single person can be as high as $3,000 monthly.

Fortunately, Singapore’s health care and taxation systems allow residents to enjoy a high quality of life. Adjusting to life in Singapore won’t be much of a hassle since many signs in the culturally diverse city-state are in English.

Singapore is also home to Changi Airport, one of the world’s best airports. When visitors have time, they can explore the Buddha Tooth Relic Temple, Supertree Grove, and St. Andrew’s Cathedral.

Zurich, Switzerland

Five of the top 10 most expensive cities for international workers are in Europe, with four in Switzerland. Living in Zurich, Switzerland, can take a toll on the wallet, as the average living costs for one person are around $3,380 per month. Meals cost more, too. A typical fast food meal runs $18.50 and a dinner for two around $114.

Thanks to Zurich’s efficient public transportation, safe environment, and excellent health care, residents can probably let the expensive living costs slide. The city is also home to breathtaking natural wonders like Lake Zurich and Uetliberg and historic landmarks like Grossmünster, Fraumünster, and Lindenhof.

Geneva, Switzerland

Geneva is the second Swiss city on this list of the most expensive cities in the world to live in. Life here is just as expensive as in Zurich; the average cost for a single person is about $3,266 per month. Visitors might want to bring a little extra when going out on a date. Dinner for two would cost more than $124.

Thanks to its excellent transportation options and eco-friendly policies, living in Geneva can still be enjoyable. Those considering a move to this beautiful city can import a car without paying taxes or customs duties for up to two years if you list it as part of your personal effects. The city’s cycling-friendly infrastructure also makes exploring Geneva on two wheels an attractive option.

Geneva is also the birthplace of watchmaking, which boomed in the 16th century, and home to the Palais des Nations, the United Nations’ European headquarters.

Basel, Switzerland

Another Swiss city made it to Mercer’s list of the most expensive cities in the world to live in. Basel is a “cheaper” alternative compared to Geneva and Zurich, as the average monthly living cost for an individual is just about $2,820.

While living in Basel can be expensive, the city makes up for its safe streets, rich culture, and delicious cuisine. Basel is home to more than 30 museums and boasts thriving nightlife thanks to its pubs, live music clubs, and bars along Klein-Basel. Some points of interest include Basel’s Old Town, home to century-old buildings, including the stunning Basel Cathedral.

Bern, Switzerland

Bern, the fourth Swiss city on our list, is the “cheapest” of the four Swiss locales, as an individual’s average monthly living cost is about $2,569. Meals are cheaper here than in other Swiss cities, as a dinner for two is about $93.60, and a fast food meal is about $17.

Like most cities in Switzerland, Bern’s efficient transportation system, including well-connected railways and trams, offset its expensive living costs. You can even borrow a bicycle for free in Bern, thanks to its bike-lending initiative called Bernrollt.

Bern, or the “City of Fountains,” boasts more than 100 public fountains in the Old City, also a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Emmental — the valley, not the cheese! — is perfect for outdoor enthusiasts, and the little town and castle of Laupen is a great place to stroll and explore cobblestone streets and half-timbered houses.

New York City, United States

The focus shifts to the United States, where New York City ranks as one of the world’s most expensive places to live. In this densely populated city, affordable rent and housing are almost impossible to find. A “cheap” one-bedroom apartment costs around $1,805 per month, and a typical one-bedroom apartment would cost over $2,597. That doesn’t even include utilities, like internet and electricity.

Traffic congestion is a common issue in the Big Apple, so walking is a practical option despite the availability of buses and trains. The city offers endless activities: catching an award-winning Broadway show, biking across the Brooklyn Bridge, strolling through Central Park, or exploring the art collections at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

London, United Kingdom

London is the most expensive city to live in the United Kingdom, with an average cost of living of over $3,321 for a single person per month. London’s health care system and robust public transportation options, such as trains, trams, buses, and ferries, make up for its expensive living costs.

Though London is an expensive city to live in, it remains an attractive option due to its rich culture and iconic landmarks. The city offers breathtaking views from the London Eye, the chance to visit Buckingham Palace, and the opportunity to explore the extensive collections at the British Museum.

Nassau, Bahamas

Nassau is the only Caribbean town on Mercer’s list of the world’s most expensive cities. Although ranked the Bahamas ’ best city, this comes with a price: the average cost of living for one person in Nassau is about $2,311 monthly.

Despite the high cost of living, the Bahamas remains a popular place to move into, thanks to its pristine beaches and fun activities. Sun-soaked strolls along Saunders Beach, Arawak Cay, and Junkanoo Beach offer a perfect escape. An excursion to nearby Pig Beach in Exuma provides the unique experience of encountering the famous swimming pigs.

Los Angeles, California

Although Los Angeles is popular for its great weather, palm trees and beaches, it’s infamous for its astronomical living costs. A single-bedroom apartment costs more than $2,215, and a family of four earning $100,000 annually is a “low-income household.”

Traffic congestion, the lack of good public transportation options, and high taxes are also a turnoff for people who want to make the move to Los Angeles. Climate change also increases the risk of natural disasters in the city, such as wildfires and flash flooding.

Although life in Los Angeles comes with a hefty price tag, the city rewards its residents with delectable cuisine, beautiful beaches, and lively nightlife. Los Angeles offers an endless variety of food options, ranging from Asian to Mexican and European cuisine. The city’s attractions include Griffith Park, Venice Beach, the Getty Center, and the Hollywood Walk of Fame.