Title: Chloe San Jose, ibinahagi ang sweet moment nila ni Carlos Yulo sa Incheon Airport
Source: Kami.com.ph
URL: https://kami.com.ph/entertainment/celebrities/168928-chloe-san-jose-nag-share-ng-sweet-pic-nila-ni-carlos-yulo-sa-incheon-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

- Chloe San Jose shared a new sweet photo of her and Carlos Yulo

- The photo shows them posing for a selfie with their faces near each other

- As seen in the background, the cozy snapshot was captured at Incheon Airport in South Korea

- The two-time Olympic gold medalist's girlfriend also used 10 cm's "But it's Destiny" as background music

Chloe San Jose has taken to Instagram Stories and shared a sweet post featuring her and Carlos Yulo.

On Friday, September 20, Chloe published a photo where she and her boyfriend could be seen doing a cozy pose.

In the said snapshot, the couple is seen happily posing for a selfie with their faces near each other.

It could also be noticed in the background that Chloe took the sweet snap at Incheon Airport in South Korea.

The two-time Olympic gold medalist's girlfriend shared the photo with no caption, but she used the song "But it's Destiny" by South Korean singer-songwriter 10cm as background music.

Here is a screenshot of Chloe's post:

Chloe San Jose is the girlfriend of Carlos Yulo, a Filipino artistic gymnast known for his exceptional skills and achievements in gymnastics. He gained international recognition for his performances in various competitions, particularly in the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships. He also bagged two gold medals from the Paris Olympics. He won medals in gymnastics' men's floor exercise and men's vault in the said Olympic Games.

Chloe San Jose graced the episode of "ASAP" on September 1. The girlfriend of Carlos "Golden Boy" Yulo performed on the show's "Woman of the Hour" segment. Chloe gorgeously sang and danced to "Havana" by American singer-songwriter Camila Cabello. During her conversation with the hosts, Chloe revealed what she felt while performing on the "ASAP" main stage for the first time. Videos of her stunning performance also made the rounds all over social media.

John Estrada could not help but share Carlos Yulo and Chloe San Jose’s viral dance video. The video shows the two-time Olympic gold medalist and his girlfriend hopping on the “Rigor” dance trend. In the said trend, participants would groove to a dance remix with a trending line of Mercedes Cabral’s character in “FPJ’s Batang Quiapo,” Lena. On Instagram Stories, John thanked the couple for taking on the dance challenge.

Source: KAMI.com.gh