Title: Review: Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge (SIN)
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/singapore-airlines-first-class-lounge-review-sin/
--------------------------------------------------

The name is almost a misnomer…although the Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge in Terminal 3 of Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) is technically a first class lounge, it is not the first class lounge for Singapore Airlines passengers nor does it feel much like a first class lounge when compared to it peers. That said, it’s still a very nice lounge and worth a visit if you have access.

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge (SIN) Review

While using The Private Room next door, which is actually the lounge designated for Singapore Airlines First Class or Suites Class passengers, I stepped over next door for a quick visit.

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge Location

You’ll find this lounge in the same place as The Private Room and the SilverKris Business Lounge…right in the middle of Terminal 3 up an escalator adorned by a beautiful glass art installation. Turn left at the top of the escalator.

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge Hours

This is a 24/7 lounge (unlike The Private Room, which closes between 2:30 AM and 5:30 AM daily) and was quite busy as I entered around 7:30 AM.

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge Access Rules

So who can access this lounge? Two groups:

Star Alliance first class passengers (plus one guest)

Singapore Airlines PPS Club Solitaire members (plus one guest)

While Singapore Airlines passengers traveling in first class can use this lounge, they also have access to The Private Room, so access is geared particularly toward Singapore Airlines top-tier elites as well as to first class passengers on Lufthansa or SWISS (no other Star Alliance carrier offers first class service to Singapore).

Singapore Airlines First Class passengers traveling with a guest might also use this lounge since no guests are permitted in The Private Room.

Singapore Airlines First Class Seating

At 12,000 square feet, there is plenty of room in the first class lounge, though there is no natural light. As you enter, a showcase bar on the right offers both alcohol and cocktails with a big asterisk (more on that below).

General seating includes chairs arranged in clusters and a large dining area.

Further into the lounge there are some cubicles and couches:

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge Food + Drink

Let’s start with coffee, a subject near and dear to my heart.

Barista coffee service is only available from 6:00 AM to 10:00 AM. Cocktails are only available from 5:30 PM to 1:00 AM.

Um, what?

It’s not only a silly policy…but an odd one. People drink coffee at different times. In addition to my morning coffee, I enjoy an afternoon coffee each day. Is it really so hard to staff the coffee machine all day long? Is it really too burdensome to have a bartender there all day who can make coffee or cocktails? After all, people are coming in from time zones all over the world.

Self-service coffee, tea, beer, wine, spirits, and juice are available 24/7, but the automatic coffee machines are no alternative for the coffee machine in the bar. Somehow the nearby Qantas First Lounge is able to offer coffee or cocktails all day long…

As for food, a buffet offers a selection of food from Eastern and Western cuisines, plus food that almost looked like it was intended for takeaway, like sandwiches and fruit.

There were also six specials made-to-order (available from 5:00 AM to 11:00 AM), including:

Minced pork noodles (bak chor mee)

Indian flatbread with fish curry (roti prata)

Eggs made to order

Pan-fried yam cake

Beef pastrami sandwich

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge Nap Rooms

Nap rooms (four of them) are available on a first-come, first-served basis. You can reserve them for two hours at a time and these rooms include a twin-size bed and small desk.

Like The Private Room, the doors have windows on them so you can look in…that limits privacy. You also cannot control every light, so not only will there be ambient light from outside, but the lights inside the nap room will turn off and on.

Singapore Airlines First Class Lounge Restrooms + Showers

Gendered restrooms plus six shower suites are available. The shower suites include toilets as well. A baby changing room is also available.

CONCLUSION

While not Singapore Airlines’ flagship lounge, this first class lounge has nice amenities and certainly felt less crowded than the nearby SilverKris Business Lounge. That said, it is not a leading first class lounge when compared to its peers, feeling more like a nice business class lounge.

I don’t understand why Singapore Airlines has such limited hours for the barista coffee service, which strikes me as a big negative for this lounge…but other than I enjoyed it.