Title: Airlines And Passengers Move To Reduce Their Global Footprints
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/tedreed/2024/10/15/airlines-and-passengers-move-to-reduce-their-global-footprints/
--------------------------------------------------

Sometimes it seems that an individual airline passenger can have no real impact on the declining state of the global environment. That is not entirely true.

The airline industry is committed to achieve net zero carbon emissions, with a target date of 2050. The International Air Traffic Association, which includes 330 airlines with 80% of the world’s traffic, backed the commitment in a 2021 resolution. The three global U.S. carriers have all repeatedly stated their commitment to the effort.

It is also possible for individuals to act. Various organizations promote the concept of “green travel.” Seattle-based Sustainable Travel International lists specific guidelines for airline passengers who want to reduce their carbon footprint.

They include:

Book non-stop flights: “The most fuel is consumed at takeoff and landing,” said Paloma Zapata, CEO of Sustainable Travel International, one of a large array of organizations that work to promote environmental improvement in travel, said in an interview. Non-stop trips obviously involve fewer takeoffs than do trips with connections at hubs. Also, she said, non-stop routes are the most direct routes to a destination.

Fly in economy: “When you are in a coach seat, that is most efficient,” Zapata said. “First class or business class seats are two times or two and a half times larger, based on space as a person. That’s when you see a large difference.”

Pack light: “The more weight that is on the plane, the more fuel is needed for takeoff and flying,” Zapata said. “The lighter you pack, the more fuel efficient the flight will be.”

Avoid flying to nearby destinations: France has banned domestic short-haul flights to bring down carbon emissions. The regulation prohibits flights where a rail alternative under 2.5 hours exists, but there is an exemption for flights to a hub. The ban has been criticized by critics as symbolic, but now Spain is considering whether to replicate it. Says Zapata, “It works well for shorter flights.”

Slow It Down. Zapata said, “You don’t have to make a zillion short weekend trips; it is better to plan ahead for a longer more meaningful trip” that might filter out redundant travel.

As for the airlines, they see the use of sustainable aviation fuel as the best path currently available, although SAF remains in short supply. They are also committed to buying newer more efficient aircraft.

“Sustainable aviation fuel is a lower-carbon alternative to normal jet fuel that can be used to fuel existing aircraft without making significant modifications to the aircraft and its engines,” United said in a prepared statement. “SAF used by United has up to 85% lower GHG emissions than regular jet fuel when we count all of its emissions, all the way from how it’s made and delivered to the airport, to when we use it.” GHG emissions are greenhouse gas emissions.

Currently, only 0.1% of United’s overall fuel use is SAF. United bought about seven million gallons of SAF in 2023, making it the U.S. leader in the effort. The carrier also enables customers to contribute to a sustainable flight account when booking: the funds are invested in SAF research and purchases.

Airlines agree that any substantial move to SAF will require political action. “There isn’t nearly enough available to meet global demand, which is why Delta is doing its part to advocate with state and federal stakeholders for policies to increase production of SAF,” Delta said in a press release issued on April 1, 2024, the first day of Earth Month.

Importantly, Delta is part of a group, which includes Bank of America and energy companies that launched a Minnesota SAF hub in August. The hub is pursuing environmental and water stewardship along the SAF value chain, from feedstock to refining at the Minneapolis airport.

Operationally, Delta seeks fuel savings through reduced weight, enhanced landing procedures, and optimizations to flight routing and speed. For instance, Delta has sought to reduce auxiliary power unit (APU) run time between flights, which currently average 65 minutes. One minute of runtime reduction system-wide would save 1.2 million gallons of fuel annually. In 2023, Delta’s operational efforts resulted in fuel savings of more than 20 million gallons.

American has signed a series of agreements with organizations seeking fuel sustainability. One produces ultra-low carbon fuels, made from waste carbon dioxide and renewable power; another assembles carbon removal credits. American was also “the first airline to achieve statistically significant results, verified by satellite imagery, from a small contrails avoidance test aimed at reducing aviation’s environmental impact,” the carrier said in a press release. The test indicated that some atmospheric zones create contrails, enabling pilots to avoid them.

“Compared to other, not-yet-fully proven technologies to reduce the climate impacts of aviation, SAF is a no-brainer,” American said. However, “Scaling the SAF market so fuel is available at the volume and price needed to make a real dent in aviation’s climate impacts” requires more action. It “depends on bolder action by policymakers, increased investment by energy companies and more innovative financing approaches.”

In other words, the public can become involved politically in seeking climate reductions. One place is airports, which are generally controlled by local authorities. For instance, Miami International Airport has set a goal to reduce greenhouse gases by 50% by 2030. It is removing contaminated soil, increasing recycling and waste reduction, reducing electricity use and reducing fuel consumption with new electric vehicles. MIA is also moving forward with a $130-million project to renovate its entire terminal roof with solar power panels by 2030.

Of course, it can be overdone. Although airlines produce only about 3% of all carbon emissions, the concept of “flight shaming,” or making people uncomfortable about flying, has drawn attention in Europe.

“Flight shaming is when people say you shouldn’t fly because emissions are too high: you should stay put, stay home,” Zapata said. “I don’t agree with that. It is good for humans to do cultural exchange to meet new ways of life and have human connections, and to generate more tolerance and more open-mindedness.”