Title: India's infrastructure woes: A closer look at quality vs quantity
Source: Economictimes.com
URL: https://m.economictimes.com/opinion/et-commentary/indias-infrastructure-woes-a-closer-look-at-quality-vs-quantity/articleshow/112022939.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

India's recent infrastructure projects, such as Bengaluru's Terminal 2, showcased world-class standards but faced quality issues with structural failures. Despite massive spending, poor maintenance and corruption have led to numerous collapses and inefficiencies. Transparency and accountability measures are crucial to improving the country's infrastructure reliability according to a 2020 World Bank blog and global initiatives mentioned in the article.

When Bengaluru airport's Terminal 2 opened in late 2022, it shut those up who believed India could never deliver world-class infrastructure. Designed by Chicago-headquartered Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the German Grohe taps in washrooms, stunning art in lounges, breathing trees and bamboo ceilings outshone even Singapore's feted Changi Airport. Until it didn't.

Barely 18 months later, the roof started leaking after heavy rains lashed the city.

Questionable quality that fails the all-weather test is fast becoming the story of India's most prestigious infra projects. As GoI continues with its well-intentioned infra push, it should be mindful that it needs to emphasise quality and transparency over deadlines and quantity.

In the budget, Nirmala Sitharaman announced an outlay of 3.4% of India's GDP for infrastructure. It's a sure shot way of keeping the economy humming in the absence of private sector investment. Still, record spending on public finances without heightened accountability is problematic.

Despite spending trillions of rupees, flops have piled up:

A canopy at Delhi airport's Terminal 1 collapsed in the heavy rains, killing one person and injuring several others last month. Airports in Jabalpur, Rajkot and Lucknow joined this unfortunate club.

Delhi's Pragati Maidan underpass, built with ₹777 cr in time for the G20 summit last year, was closed after severe waterlogging following heavy rains last month. A government department declared it a 'threat' because of design flaws and technical deficiencies.

In 2021 and 2022, an average of one bridge collapsed every month in India. The Bundelkhand Expressway across UP, built at a cost of nearly ₹15,000 cr, cracked in places five days after its inauguration by the PM in July 2022. More recently, as of July 10 with the collapse of a bridge in Saharsa district of Bihar, 13 bridges collapsed in the span of three weeks in the state.

Innumerable highways lie pockmarked with craters. Cities flood when it rains. Gaping manholes claim victims. And municipalities struggle with garbage disposal and water shortages. Awful air quality makes our big cities unliveable. Our mountains are sliding into mud pools from rampant overbuilding. Little or no maintenance renders existing infrastructure fragile.

We have rarely identified the root of the problem. As the regular citizen helplessly dismisses risk as a way of life, these examples end up as political footballs between parties indulging in a blame game. Corruption, cost overruns and opaqueness in infra projects are neither new nor unique to any country.

A 2020 World Bank blog, 'As countries sit on shaky foundations, tackling corruption in infrastructure is key', says that in developing countries, estimates of losses to bribery in construction, which lies downstream from procurement, are as high as 45% of construction costs. Some countries like Thailand and Honduras are trying to change that by participating in a global initiative where governments publish all project data to the public, and make it open to audit by multi-stakeholder groups, including civil society.

Many countries have signed up to validate and interpret data on public projects as part of the Infrastructure Transparency Index (CoST). These can also be mapped against global procurement practices to ensure standard processes are followed and quality checks remain in place.

This means an ordinary citizen can see how much it costs to build a road in Bengaluru versus in Mumbai, or a dam in Kerala versus in Jammu. It would give us details of materials used, cost, practices involved, time taken, the acute competition for projects or the lack thereof. And, indeed, the performance of that infra.

By forming collectives of citizen groups, government and private sector, public projects can be scrutinised and gaps identified. We can gauge if projects are awarded to areas that need them most.

India is no longer a country of free or cheap access. We pay taxes on everything from our incomes to goods and services we use. We pay tolls for the roads we drive on. When disappointed, we crib and elect different governments that foster the same legacy. We stay trapped. Our failure to build accountability has resulted in unreliable infra. This must be arrested.

For governments, the reputational risk of failure is too damaging to ignore. They have a real opportunity to fix a problem that has a solution - one that has worked for others.

The writer runs a leadership and stakeholder advisory and strategic communications consultancy

(Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this column are that of the writer. The facts and opinions expressed here do not reflect the views of www.economictimes.com.)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...more