Title: Fact Check: Do Viral Turbulence Videos Show Singapore Airlines Plane?
Source: Newsweek
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/fact-check-do-viral-turbulence-videos-show-singapore-airlines-plane-1902984
--------------------------------------------------

A person has died and several others were injured after a Singapore Airlines flight was hit by "severe turbulence", forcing it to divert to Bangkok.

In a statement, the airline said Flight SQ321, which was carrying 211 passengers and 18 crew on board, made an emergency landing at Suvarnabhumi Airport at 15:45 p.m. local time.

"We can confirm that there are injuries and one fatality on board the Boeing 777-300ER," the statement read, which included "deepest condolences to the family of the deceased."

Read More on Fact Check

As the news broke, multiple videos were posted on social media that appeared to show the airplane in crisis, with passengers being thrown around the craft and screaming.

The Claim

Multiple posts on X, formerly Twitter, and Telegram included footage attached to news about the Singapore Airlines flight in which one passenger died from turbulence on the plane.

A post by Telegram channel Astrapress, posted on May 21, 2024, included two videos, one of which shows a person being thrown into the air, and the other of passengers screaming on a flight.

Another post on X by user @adarwis, posted on May 21, 2024, viewed 73,000 times, included the same video of the passenger being thrown into the air with the message "One person dead after severe turbulence on London-Singapore SIA flight SQ321 dropped about 6000 feet due to an air pocket. One person dead."

The Facts

Neither of the films shared on social media were recorded on the Singapore Airlines flight.

The video of a person being thrown into the air on the flight was recorded in 2019 and has been misappropriated before. As reported by Euronews, the film was recorded on a June 2019 ALK Airlines flight from Pristina, Kosovo, to Basel, Switzerland, during which ten people were injured.

The person thrown into the air was a crew member, Euronews reported. The incident was also reported by the Daily Mail and ABC News.

It was misused in 2021 when it was attributed to the fatal Sriwijaya Air crash in which 62 people were killed, AFP Fact Check found.

The other film was recorded in 2023 on a flight to Mallorca, Spain, showing a plane being hit by turbulence as it flew through extreme winds. Departing from Alicante in southern Spain, the flight was carrying passengers to the Balearic Island when it was hit by turbulence resulting from stormy conditions in the area.

Speaking to Newsweek, 25-year-old Estela Orts Martínez, who recorded the film, said: "I felt vulnerable, it was a situation that I couldn't solve, that my life depended on someone else, so I started to tremble and I knew that I was getting a little anxious and I started to cry."

"Each one expresses fear in a different way," she said. "Some screamed, others cried, others vomited, others hugged each other, others laughed and others seemed to even enjoy themselves."

According to Sky News, the plane was forced back to Alicante after it was unable to descend.

Some of the media posted online from the Singapore Airlines flight has been genuine. Pictures posted to social media from inside the aircraft showed the floor of the plane covered in food from the impact of the turbulence.

Data from Flightradar24 showed that the aircraft plunged more than 6,000 feet in less than three minutes, falling to 31,000 feet after cruising at 37,000 feet.

The aircraft then stayed at 31,000 feet for just under 10 minutes before rapidly descending and landing in Bangkok in just under half an hour.

The aircraft left the UK from London Heathrow Airport on Monday evening at 10:17 p.m. local time, flight-tracking data showed, before requesting permission to make an emergency landing in Thailand.

It had been scheduled to land at the Singapore Changi Airport at 6.10 p.m. local time.

The Ruling

False.

The videos posted online were not recorded on the Singapore Airlines flight this week on which one person was killed during turbulence.

One film is from a 2019 flight between Kosovo and Switzerland. The other is from a 2023 flight from Alicante to Mallorca, Spain.