Title: IHIF 2025: Yotel Continues to Grow Portfolio with Expansion in New Markets
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/news/4126502.html
--------------------------------------------------

The London-based, global hospitality brand has 23 operating hotels across 16 buzzing cities and airports around the world. With 11 hotels in the pipeline due to open in the next 24 months, the brand plans to double its portfolio to 15,000 rooms globally by 2030.

YOTEL Bangkok to open end of 2025

YOTEL will open its first hotel in Thailand at the end of 2025 in Bangkok’s upcoming innovation district, South Sukhumvit. The new build hotel will be part of the cutting-edge Cloud 11 - a 250,000 sqm ground-up, mixed-use development set to be a playground for Southeast Asia’s artists, makers, and tech entrepreneurs. Developed by leading Bangkok-based property developer MQDC, Cloud 11 will be Asia’s largest content creator hub with a project value of over 1.2 billion USD.

From check-in to check-out at YOTEL Bangkok, guests will be immersed in the heart of innovation and technology. The 250-key hotel will showcase YOTEL’s latest features including a YOBOT luggage storage robot, room service robots, reclining SmartBeds™, and self-service check in stations. Guests will have access a multi-functional dining and co-working space, a 24-hour fitness centre, a Grab+Go snack station, and two meeting hubs. Guests, visitors to Cloud 11 and locals will also have access to the sky bar on the 23rd floor overlooking Bang Krachao, dubbed the green lung of Bangkok.

Link to press release.

YOTEL expands UK portfolio with YOTEL Belfast

Slated to open in late 2026, YOTEL will open its first hotel on the island of Ireland in central Belfast in partnership with Northern Ireland’s largest hotel group, Andras Hotels. The new build hotel will be situated in the historic Shaftesbury Square, just minutes’ walk from some of the city’s most popular attractions, including Queen’s University and the Botanic Gardens.

The hotel will feature 165 rooms that each embody the YOTEL DNA of prioritising intelligent space-saving design, smart technology and maximum comfort for visitors to the city. Guests can expect brand signatures, such as the YOTEL reclining SmartBed™, SmartTVs, and rain showers with Urban Jungle amenities.

In addition, YOTEL Belfast will also be home to a dynamic food and beverage concept, a 24/7 fitness centre and a meeting room. The public spaces will be designed in collaboration with local interior designers and architects to reflect the unique character of the Northern Irish capital and create a welcoming space for both hotel guests and the local community to socialise, work, and relax.

Link to press release.

YOTEL lands in Japan with YOTEL Tokyo Ginza

Holding a prime position in central Ginza and close to Tokyo Station, YOTEL Tokyo Ginza is a new flagship property for the brand. YOTEL’s first hotel in Japan opened in December 2024 in collaboration with Singapore-based Frasers Hospitality and marks the start of ambitious expansion plans for the market.

The hotel showcases the brand’s latest features including a striking Mission Control (reception area) with three self-service stations, a high-spec 24/7 gym, and robot crew, who are on hand to escort guests or make deliveries to their rooms. On the ground floor, the bar and restaurant Komyuniti offers an all-day dining concept, serving simple and fresh international fare, as well as wine, craft local beer, sake and soju. Its 244 rooms come in a range of categories including Premium Queen, Premium Twin and Family Connected. Floor to ceiling windows will immerse guests in the city, with views of Tokyo Tower, Ginza, and the Shinkansen snaking its way through Tokyo.

YOTEL Tokyo Ginza

YOTEL continues growth in Asia with signings in Malaysia and Neom

YOTEL will expand its Asia footprint over the next two years with hotels in groundbreaking developments in Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. Joining YOTEL Singapore Orchard Road, YOTELAIR Singapore Changi Airport, YOTEL Tokyo Ginza and soon to open YOTEL Bangkok, the growth across Asia is a strategic part of the brand’s plan to double its portfolio to 15,000 rooms globally by 2030.

Scheduled to open in 2026 in partnership with High Street Holdings, YOTEL Kuala Lumpur will be a 290-key hotel in the heart of the capital’s Central Business District and a sought-after location for business and leisure travellers alike. Plans for the hotel, which will be part of a mixed-use development, include a rooftop pool and bar offering views of the city skyline, as well as a multi-functional dining and co-working space, a fitness centre and Grab+Go snack station.

YOTEL’s first hotel in Saudi Arabia will be in the Research and Innovation district of NEOM’s Oxagon. Selected as the first brand to open a hotel property in Oxagon, YOTEL will convey the bustling energy of the district’s innovation eco-system through innovative design and tech-enabled experiences.

YOTEL Development

YOTEL London City undergoes renovations to public spaces

Having opened in 2020, YOTEL’s first central London property located in Clerkenwell is undergoing renovations to its public spaces, emphasising the brand’s commitment to continually innovating and investing in the guest experience.

Scheduled to be completed in April 2025, the works will improve the guest journey through the hotel and generate operational efficiencies, as well as refresh interiors to create spaces that reflect the needs of today’s modern traveller.

In Mission Control (reception area), a more intuitive check-in process will be created with an additional self-service station that will allow more guests to check in and check out in under a minute, as well as select add-ons or upgrades. The layout will be altered to allow Mission Control crew to better interact with guests and ensure a more efficient guest experience.

In its bar and lounge Revolve, new furniture and flexible layout will create dynamic spaces for guests to work, for casual meetings, post-work drinks and semi-private areas available to hire for events, appealing to hotel guests and local residents and workers.

The design narrative draws inspiration from the hotel’s locality while staying true to the YOTEL brand. Colours, textures and materials reflect Clerkenwell’s heritage as the centre of watch making and the exploration of horology – the study of time and the art of measuring it. For example, timber furniture represents watch workshops, circular shapes and curves are akin to watch faces and the use of mirrors reflect a moment in time. The narrative embodies the YOTEL guest, who values time and efficiency, while requiring a place to stop.