Title: Accor Expands Partnership with Worldwide Hotels Group to bring Novotel Singapore on Kitchener
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/announcement/41009995.html
--------------------------------------------------

Accor, a world-leading hospitality Group, has signed an agreement with Worldwide Hotels Group, the largest hotel operator in Singapore in terms of room number and Accor's long standing partner, for a new Novotel hotel in Singapore. Situated in the heart of the historic Little India, the 543-key Novotel Singapore on Kitchener is set to welcome guests starting from November 1, 2023.

Novotel Singapore on Kitchener will be rebranded from PARKROYAL on Kitchener Road following its acquisition in July 2023 by Worldwide Hotels Group. The deal represents the largest ever single asset hotel transaction in Singapore and the second largest in Asia Pacific so far this year. The rebranding starts after the acquisition is completed by October 31, 2023.

Accor has an existing strong partnership with Worldwide Hotels Group, as evidenced by the latter's successful management of ibis Styles Brisbane in Australia and ibis Budget Osaka Umeda in Japan.

Novotel Singapore on Kitchener is conveniently situated in Little India, a vibrant retail and residential area, near two major shopping malls: City Square Mall and Mustafa Centre. The hotel is just a five-minute walk from the Farrer Park MRT station, a 10-minute drive from the central business district, and a 20-minute drive from Changi Airport.

With a full-scale refurbishment in 2020, Novotel Singapore on Kitchener will offer updated décor and interior design, including new flooring, open-concept wardrobes, and refreshed bathrooms. Ideal for business guests and families, the hotel will feature a combination of intuitive design, modular room layouts, and spacious accommodations, ranging from 28 to 78 square meters. Moreover, the in-hotel restaurant has all-day dining options, allowing guests to indulge in culinary delights.

Novotel Singapore on Kitchener will be dedicated to a holistic stay experience, providing a diverse range of facilities that promote well-being and enjoyment, including a swimming pool, executive and hospitality lounges, a gym, and retail shops.