Title: Boeing Planes Miss Singapore Airshow, China's C919 In Spotlight
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisagarcia/2024/02/19/boeing-planes-miss-singapore-airshow-chinas-c919-in-spotlight/
--------------------------------------------------

Boeing has elected not to bring any commercial aircraft to this year’s Singapore Airshow, featuring a 777X cabin experience mock-up instead. The company’s displays will focus on defense aircraft. China’s C919 debuted at the airshow with a well-received fly-over greeting on Sunday. The biennial Singapore Airshow opens officially on Tuesday, February 20.

COMAC Aspires To Break Jet Duopoly

The C919 is ​​China's hopeful answer to the Airbus and BoeingBA duopoly on passenger jets. The narrow-body C919 manufactured by the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China is only certified in China for now. However, the manufacturer has built it to meet international airworthiness standards, and the Chinese aviation authority is negotiating with the European authority for type certification.

The aircraft competes with Boeing 737 MAX and Airbus A320neo for domestic aircraft demand. It can seat 158 to 192 passengers and offers a flight range of 4,075 to 5,555 kilometers. The first aircraft rolled out in November 2015, and the first test flight took place on May 5th, 2017. The production rate is still low. The first four planes went to its launch customer, China Eastern Airlines with the fourth jet in an order of five delivered to China Eastern this January. The airline ordered 100 more C919 aircraft in September last year. China has committed to supporting the manufacturer in reaching a production of 150 aircraft a year by 2028.

The Chinese aircraft manufacturer will also feature its ARJ21 short-medium range turbofan regional aircraft in aerial displays at the Singapore Airshow. The ARJ21 aircraft can carry 78 to 97 passengers anywhere from 2,225 to 3,700 kilometers.

COMAC is working on alternatives to address airlines’ long-haul needs. Its C929, China's first long-range widebody jet, is in the design phase after some delays. The baseline version of the C929 will seat up to 280 passengers and offer airlines a range of 12,000 kilometers suitable for international routes and high-capacity demand regional flights. The aircraft program was first a joint venture between COMAC and Russian United Aircraft Corporation. That fell apart last year due to ongoing disagreements and the lingering impact of Russian sanctions.

Boeing 737 MAX 8 Returns To China With High Single-aisle Demand Projected

While it may not make the Singapore aerial display, the 737 MAX is still in demand. Despite its recent troubles, China has cleared Boeing to resume deliveries for the first time since March 2019. Boeing delivered a 737 MAX 8 registered to China Southern Airlines this January.

The U.S. aerospace giant has estimated that 20% of the world's demand for jets will come from China through 2042. In its commercial market outlook, Boeing estimates China will need 8,560 new commercial airplanes, with 6,470 being single-aisle aircraft like the 737 MAX.

China’s aviation sector will also need $675 billion in aviation services. That includes maintenance, repair, training, and spare parts. At the Singapore Airshow, Boeing will showcase services for government and commercial customers, including digital, sustainment, modifications, parts, and training solutions.

“Domestic air traffic in China has already surpassed pre-pandemic levels, and international traffic is recovering steadily,” said Darren Hulst, Boeing vice president of commercial Marketing, in a press brief on the company’s forecast issued last year. “As China's economy and traffic continue to grow, Boeing's complete line-up of commercial jets will play a key role in helping meet that growth sustainably and economically.”

Boeing Aligns with Sustainability Theme of Singapore Airshow

While Boeing has left commercial jets at home, the company will feature an “immersive display of the 777X cabin experience highlighting its spacious and flexible architecture.” The 777X was part of the aerial display at the last Singapore Airshow 2022.

Singapore Airshow 2024 organizers have organized a series of forums and exhibits on aviation sustainability. They include electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft by Boeing subsidiary Wisk Aero. Boeing’s representatives at the airshow will also display support for the airline industry’s goal of net-zero emissions by 2050.

Boeing Defense On Display

Boeing aircraft will fly in the skies over Singapore this week. Beyond the many commercial aircraft operating out of Singapore’s Changi Airport, Boeing’s defense customers will display their aircraft at the show. The line up includes F-15 jets, P-8A Poseidon, AH-64E Apache, CH-47F Chinook, and C-17 Globemaster III, and a B-52 flying display, among others. An F-15EX simulator at the Boeing display let Singapore Airshow visitors explore the fighter’s design and cockpit.

“Southeast Asia’s fast-growing economies continue to invest in new aerospace products and services for the future,” said Dr. Brendan Nelson, AO, president of Boeing Global in a brief about the Singapore Airshow. “Boeing provides our commercial and government customers across the region with the capabilities they need while we continue to expand our regional presence and open new opportunities for partners and suppliers.”