Title: McDonald's SG wins big at Marketing Excellence Awards 2023
Source: Marketing Interactive
URL: https://www.marketing-interactive.com/mcdonald-singapore-awarded-marketer-of-the-year-at-mea-2023
--------------------------------------------------

McDonald's Singapore secured four gold, five silver and one bronze awards and was duly crowned the “Marketer of the Year” at Singapore’s 12th edition of the Marketing Excellence Awards.

The multinational fast food chain wowed the audience with their innovative marketing campaigns of McDonald’s MyM Rewards, McDonald’s MyM Rewards, Scream for Ice Cream, Singapore made it to the World Cup!, and With Love, McDSG, featuring their brands McDonald's Singapore and McDonald's. They performed with finesse across multiple categories, such as Excellence in Out-Of-Home Advertising, Excellence in Social Media Marketing, and Excellence in Sponsorship Activation.

In second place was HSBC with three gold, four silver, and one bronze awards. Their notable campaigns, including HSBC Futureverse and Play for Good, dominated numerous categories such as Excellence in Launch Marketing and Excellence in Mobile Marketing.

Close behind was Singtel with three gold, one silver, and two bronze awards. They topped categories, such as Excellence in Digital Marketing and Excellence in CSR / Cause Marketing, with their campaigns 5G Live Activation and Singtel Device Donation – Turning Hoarders into Do-Gooders.

Other notable wins included minden.ai, Citibank Singapore, Changi Airport Group, Health Promotion Board, National Council Against Drug Abuse (NCADA), Singapore Airlines, foodpanda Singapore, Pan Pacific Hotels Group, and The LEGO® Group.

Check out the full list of winners here.

Judged solely by an independent panel of respected client-side marketers, MARKETING-INTERACTIVE’s Marketing Excellence Awards has become the premier platform for brands to showcase their marketing excellence across Singapore. Marketing-Interactive would like to extend a huge thank you to our judges who put in the time and effort to thoroughly review and score every single entry.