Title: Is It Worth Paying To Walk Across Canopy Bridge Changi Airport Jewel?
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2023/09/27/is-it-worth-paying-to-walk-across-canopy-bridge-changi-airport-jewel/
--------------------------------------------------

3.2K

During our layover in Singapore, we spent most of our time at Changi Airport. Fortunately, there are plenty of things to do while you’re there:

Visit the airport’s Butterfly Garden

Choose a place to eat at Jewel

Go on the largest slide in Singapore

Stay at the world’s best airport hotel

However, the most iconic thing about Changi Airport is the Rain Vortex inside the Jewel shopping mall.

You can get a view of this massive water feature from almost anywhere in the mall. The water falls down seven stories before going through the floor into the basement levels.

And while anyone can see the rain vortex, you can pay extra to get a better look.

Mastercard Canopy Bridge

Located on the top floor of Jewel, this bridge is suspended 23 meters (about 75.5 feet) above ground. With a glass bottom at the center of the bridge and great views of the top of the rain vortex, the bridge is a great place to get some unobstructed pictures.

Tickets cost around $10 each, depending on the exchange rate, and the bridge was mostly empty when we visited after having breakfast.

If you haven’t been reading our blog for a long time, heads up I’m not a fan of heights. I’m not afraid of being in a tall building, but being out in the open or walking on a bridge isn’t my favorite thing to do. [Note from Sharon: meanwhile, I LOVE being high up. I feel so TALL….]

The beginning of the bridge was fine, with wood planks for the flooring. As you can see, you’re pretty close to the top of the vortex on the bridge. At this moment, it wasn’t running but it would turn on again shortly thereafter.

But here’s when I have to bring up the big thematic flaw of the Canopy Bridge. The Skytrain track runs several stories down and is located directly between the bridge and the rain vortex.

So while you get a great view of the top, you can’t fully see the water drop all the way through the floor.

When we got to the clear floor section, I managed as well as expected. The bridge had high handrails so I didn’t have trepidation about falling over the edge. Note that I am holding on to the handrail rather tightly. [*cough* And looks scared to death *cough*]

Mainly, the Canopy Bridge is a great place to get a selfie with the Rain Vortex.

To give an idea of where the Canopy Bridge is located, here’s a picture of it from a few floors below. You can see two people on it, towards the left side of the photo.

Final Thought

The main question I asked after walking over the Canopy Bridge at Jewel was if it was worth it.

Well, you definitely don’t have to pay to see the Rain Vortex. In fact, there are many places around the shopping mall that have a better view than what you’ll get on the bridge.

That being said, you do get closer to the top of the vortex than from anywhere else, which makes for some nice selfie opportunities. The clear bridge section is nice but all you’re looking down at is the ground floor of the mall.

In retrospect, I’m happy that we went and I don’t feel like the $10 fee was a rip-off. However, that’s the most I’d be willing to pay. It’s a one-of-a-kind experience and you have to take advantage of those when you have the chance. But now that I’ve done it, there’s no need to do it again.

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!