Title: Delta Returns to Hong Kong After Nearly Seven Years Away
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/delta-returns-to-hong-kong-after-nearly-seven-years-away/
--------------------------------------------------

419

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

As I wrote about in July 2025, Delta Air Lines has officially returned to Hong KongInternational Airport (HKG) with a new nonstop route from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). This is the first Delta flight to one of my favorite cities in the world after seven years without service.

The inaugural flight is one of many milestones in Delta’s ongoing expansion at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and restores the airline’s presence in one of Asia’s most important business and financial hubs.

The new daily service is operated by Delta’s flagship Airbus A350-900 aircraft. These offer 40 Delta One®, 40 Delta Premium Select, 36 Delta Comfort+, and 159 Delta Main seats. Delta last served Hong KongInternational Airport (HKG) in October 2018, when it ended nonstop flights from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA). Since then, the carrier has largely focused its Asia-Pacific strategy around Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN), where its joint venture partnership with Korean Air provides extensive connectivity throughout the region.

The launch of this route signals Delta’s renewed commitment to Asia and gives travelers another nonstop option between Southern California and Hong Kong. The service also opens up more than 30 one-stop connections through Delta’s Los Angeles hub to make it easier for travelers across the United States to reach Hong Kong and beyond.

Delta enters a highly competitive market. Cathay Pacific currently operates 3x daily nonstop flights and United Airlines flies the route 2x daily. To stand out, Delta is betting on its premium onboard product, strong operational performance, and the growing strength of its Los Angeles hub. Soon Delta One® guests will have access to a second Delta One® lounge.

Anthony’s Take: Delta is considering further long-haul expansion from Los Angeles. This includes potential new routes to Manila, increased service to Shanghai, and additional flights across Asia and the Pacific. As the first flight touches down in Hong Kong, Delta is once again competing on one of the Pacific’s most important routes and this time with a stronger premium product and bigger ambitions for growth in Asia.

(Image Credits: Delta Air Lines and Simon Zhu.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.