Title: Singapore Airlines, Southwest Airlines partner to expand access to nearly 120 US destinations
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/singapore-airlines-sia-southwest-airlines-single-ticket-us-travel-6170381
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: International travellers can now connect between Changi Airport and nearly 120 airports in the American carrier Southwest Airlines' network, as part of its new interline partnership with Singapore Airlines (SIA).

The deal offers travellers single-ticket journeys to and from the United States, connecting to places where both carriers fly.

SIA passengers will have access to Southwest Airlines' destinations via three airports in the US. They are:

Los Angeles International Airport

Seattle-Tacoma International Airport

San Francisco International Airport

The US carrier said in a press release on Monday (Jun 8): "In those shared gateway airports, international travellers can now seamlessly connect to nearly 120 airports in the Southwest network."

Travellers may book combined Singapore Airlines and Southwest Airlines itineraries through SIA as well as travel agents and websites.

An interline partnership is an arrangement that lets travellers book flights on two or more airlines on a single ticket instead of booking each leg of the trip separately.

They just have to check in once for all the flights on the itinerary, while their baggage are transferred through to the final destination without them having to collect and check in at connection points.

In response to CNA's queries, SIA said that its interline partnership with Southwest does not include reciprocal frequent flyer programme benefits.

"KrisFlyer members will not be able to accrue or redeem miles on Southwest Airlines-operated flights under this arrangement," the airline said.

SIA added that it continually explores opportunities to deepen cooperation with partners where there are mutual benefits for both airlines and their customers.

SIA is Southwest Airlines' eighth interline partner, with others including All Nippon Airways, China Airlines, EVA Air, Philippine Airlines and Turkish Airlines.

The partnership is expected to benefit passengers taking long-haul flights via SIA from Singapore and Asia to domestic destinations within the US.