Title: Review: Plaza Premium Lounge Singapore (SIN)
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/plaza-premium-lounge-singapore-review/
--------------------------------------------------

I took advantage of the 24/7 Plaza Premium Lounge in Singapore Changi Airport for some rest after a late arrival from Bali and extended visit to the nearby Qatar Airways Lounge.

Plaza Premium Lounge Singapore Review (SIN)

My dilemma was it was already pushing 2:00 am and I did not have a hotel booked in Singapore. With a full day of lounge reviews ahead, it did not make sense to me to blow $350 on a hotel room for a few hours. Classic Matthew. I am certain I could have stayed with friends, but disturbing them at 2:00 am also wasn’t kind. And so I decided to sleep in the lounge….something I have not done in a long time, but brought back memories of the way I traveled when I was much younger. Lounges often beat hostels! You’ll find the lounge on Level 3 of Terminal 1 (just follow the signs). You can access this lounge with your Priority Pass card.

This lounge, by the way, does not have sleeping rooms available for rental (at an additional fee) like some Plaza Premium Lounges. In fact, the signage went out of its way to try to keep people from using the booths and couches for sleeping:

And that’s fair enough…the lounge was quiet, but I wasn’t the only one looking to save a few bucks by sleeping.

Eventually I found a chair and ottoman…and managed to promptly fall asleep.

Funny how you can sleep just about anywhere you are tired.

When I awoke, the sun was shining through the windows, which also afforded great views of the apron below:

I took a look at the food available, which included Singaporean choices like laksa and chicken rice, Chinese steamed chicken cha siu bao, vegetarian dishes like Aglio e Olio and tofu with rice, a salad bar, toast, congee, and apples…a bit eclectic.

No eggs for breakfast…

Beverage choices included self-serve coffee, tea, soft drinks, plus alcohol (all for purchase, as far as I could tell). A Singapore Sling costs 15SGD.

Restrooms were (only somewhat) clean. Six shower suites were available, but the spa was closed.

CONCLUSION

This isn’t my favorite lounge in Singapore by a long shot, but it sure came in handy during my overnight layover when I did not have access to the Singapore Airlines SilverKris Lounge. In the end, I had a seven hour nap here…that’s not bad at all and I lost no time when I woke up in continuing my lounge reviews…