Title: The 10 best places to travel in October 2025
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/travel/best-places-to-travel-october/
--------------------------------------------------

October is a time to slow down and cool off. Since the month falls during the shoulder season in many of the world's most sought-after destinations, it comes with additional travel perks like fewer crowds, wallet-friendly hotel rates and, for those in the Northern Hemisphere, the opportunity to see deciduous trees flicker red, orange and gold before going dormant for the winter.

Below the equator, signs of spring are budding everywhere.

Ahead are 10 of the best places to visit in the U.S. and beyond in October.

Seoul, South Korea

While summer in South Korea's capital city is dreadfully muggy and flooded with tourists, fall is a traveler's paradise. The weather is pleasant, and the foliage is dazzling in places like Bukchon Hanok Village and Seoul Forest Park. Popular attractions, like Gyeongbokgung and Gwangjang Market, are less crowded.

Consider planning your trip around Chuseok to enjoy an even more serene city. Observed Oct. 5-7 this year, Chuseok (translated as "autumn evening") is one of Korea's most important holidays. During these three days, the hectic city slows down as many locals travel to their hometowns to be with family or take extended vacations.

Following its acquisition of Hawaiian Airlines last year, Alaska Airlines has positioned itself as a new premium global airline by launching five nonstop flights weekly from its Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) hub to Seoul's Incheon International Airport (ICN) this fall.

Related: Alaska Airlines and Hawaiian Airlines unveil much-anticipated joint loyalty program: Atmos Rewards

TPG tip: Tucked away in Gwanghwamun, Four Seasons Hotel Seoul is one of the city's most sophisticated stays. It has 317 guest rooms and suites, a Korean-inspired spa, and award-winning restaurants and bars like Michelin-starred Yu Yuan and the new H. Bar, an intimate cocktail lounge hidden within the Charles H. speakeasy. Nightly rates in October start at $512. Book through American Express Fine Hotels + Resorts to receive daily breakfast for two, late checkout and more.

Dallas

In recent years, Texas's third-largest city has transformed into a thriving cultural and culinary hub. Among the best things to do in October are the State Fair of Texas from Sept. 26 to Oct. 19, and Autumn at the Arboretum from Sept. 20 to Nov. 2 (¡Mundo Mexico!, the theme of this year's pumpkin festival, celebrates Mexican culture).

For eating and drinking, there's plenty to dig into. This year's James Beard Humanitarian of the Year Award went to Chad Houser, the founder of Cafe Momentum, a nonprofit restaurant that provides support and training to justice-involved youth.

Bar Colette, a Best New Bar finalist for the 2025 James Beard Awards, whips up playful cocktails (the Mr. Miyagi puts a Japanese spin on the rum daiquiri) in an intimate art deco-inspired room, while Tanner Agar's Apothecary sends out boundary-pushing drinks — the Funky Chicken Taco blends vegetable-infused mezcal and bouillon-infused gin — in a living room-like space done up with vintage mirrors and peacock wallpaper.

Are you in the mood to splurge? Book a table at Mabo, where acclaimed chef Masayuki Otaka crafts an omakase of his specialty, yakitori, alongside other savory delicacies.

TPG tip: Hall Arts Hotel Dallas, Curio Collection by Hilton is a contemporary, art-filled haven that's easy walking distance to the Dallas Museum of Art and Nasher Sculpture Center. In October, rooms are available from $382 or 75,000 Hilton Honors points per night.

Trondheim, Norway

Immerse yourself in enchanting fall foliage in Trondheim, set on Norway's west coast at the southern tip of the Trondheim Fjord. For endless stretches of kaleidoscopic leaves and glistening fjord water, rent a car and cruise 90 minutes north to Inderoy's Golden Road. You can also make delicious pit stops at the award-winning dairy farm Gangstad Gardsysteri for dreamy vanilla ice cream and one of the world's northernmost orchards, Inderoy Mosteri.

When you're back in the city, check out Trondheim's newest places for art and entertainment: the colorful PoMo Museum designed by India Mahdavi and the equally stunning Nye Hjorten Teater.

Though you can't fly directly to Trondheim from the U.S., carriers like Finnair, KLM and Scandinavian Airlines offer nonstop flights to Trondheim from their respective European hubs.

TPG tip: For the most luxurious accommodations in town, check in to the stately and historic Britannia Hotel, an American Express Fine Hotels + Resorts member. It has a tranquil spa, Michelin-starred restaurant Speilsalen, and rooms lavishly outfitted with Hastens beds and Carrara marble bathrooms. Rates start at $228 per night in October.

Quebec City

Set on the St. Lawrence River, Quebec City is the capital of Quebec. It's also Canada's oldest city and home to Old Quebec, a fortified colonial town designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.

However, the city's vibrant fall foliage is less well known to outsiders. The city's proximity to many parks and green spaces allows ample viewing opportunities for the picturesque spectacle of color, which peaks in late September through early October. The most popular spots are Parc National de la Jacques-Cartier, Marais du Nord (also terrific for bird-watching) and Mont-Sainte-Anne.

TPG tip: As the name suggests, Quebec City Marriott Downtown has a convenient address, making it a smart choice for first-time visitors. In October, rooms are available from $265 or 48,000 Marriott Bonvoy points per night.

Puebla, Mexico

Puebla is the antidote for those weary of touristy Mexico City and Tulum. Despite being Mexico's fourth-biggest city, Puebla balances everything you want from a reputable vacation destination (restaurants, shopping, history) with a neighborly, villagelike vibe.

October is one of the best times to visit, since the month transitions from the rainy season to the dry season, with average daytime highs in the mid- to high 70s.

Even better? It's easy to experience the best of Puebla in one weekend. Meander through the city's UNESCO-listed historic center, filled with colorful 16th- and 17th-century religious structures. Shop for some talavera, colorful hand-painted ceramics native to the region, or scoop up local designer Denisse Kuri's breezy dresses made from Indigenous textiles.

And since Puebla is the birthplace of mole poblano, the famously complex and sweet-savory sauce, try as many versions as possible when you're in town. Some of the best can be found at Augurio by beloved local chef Ángel Vázquez, Comal and Mural de los Poblanos.

TPG tip: A member of American Express Fine Hotels + Resorts, Banyan Tree Puebla is a tranquil 78-room property celebrating Pueblan culture from its design to its offerings, like the highly recommended mole cooking class. Rooms in October start at $132 per night.

Vienna

Featured in TPG's list of the best places to visit in 2025, Austria's capital has hosted festivities all year long in honor of the illustrious composer Johann Strauss' 200th birthday. However, Vienna will especially come alive Oct. 25, his actual birthdate, when the Vienna Philharmonic will perform a special gala of his works in the opulent Golden Hall of the Musikverein.

His operetta "One Night in Venice" will also be staged Oct. 25 and 29 at the opera house Volksoper Vienna. And in case you didn't know, Vienna is an under-the-radar destination for fantastic fall foliage. With approximately 1,000 parks and gardens, there are plenty of spots — local picks include Schonbrunn Palace Park and Stadtpark — to immerse yourself in the seasonal scenery.

TPG tip: Opened in May, the 125-room Hotel Astoria Vienna, Curio Collection by Hilton takes up residence in a stately 1912 building in the city's historic 1st district. In October, rooms are available from $204 or 54,000 Hilton Honors points per night.

Seychelles

Though Seychelles — another destination on TPG's "Where to go in 2025" list — is a year-round vacation destination, October holds even more appeal for those seeking sublime weather that's hot, clear and dry, without much wind or rain.

The month is also ideal for catching big fish, such as barracuda and various tuna species. The island nation is also renowned for its diverse birdlife, and October provides an opportune time to spot migratory shorebirds like Pacific golden plovers and breeding seabirds, including sooty terns.

The 40th Creole Festival, an annual celebration of the archipelago's unique tapestry of African, European and Asian influences, will be hosted in the country's lively capital of Victoria from Oct. 3 to 31.

TPG tip: Opened last December, the all-villa Cheval Blanc Seychelles marks the sixth property in LVMH's swanky Cheval Blanc portfolio, and the first in Africa. Receive daily breakfast for two, late checkout and more when you book via the Amex Fine Hotels + Resorts program. Nightly rates in October start at $1,680.

Atlantic City, New Jersey

Unless you're a high roller, Atlantic City might not top your vacation list — but it should. This iconic Jersey Shore city has something for every kind of traveler, from spa aficionados to discriminating diners, and October is a smart time to take advantage of its offerings. (Plus: Strolling down the country's oldest boardwalk, while all bundled up, gives major fall vibes.)

Joining the ranks of world-class dining options like Nobu at Caesars are the just-opened Chez Frites (modern French steakhouse) and brunch spot Sunny's by famed restaurateur Stephen Starr at Ocean Casino Resort.

There's also plenty of live entertainment worth seeing, including Hannibal Buress (Oct. 4 at Harrah's Resort), Stevie Nicks (Oct. 18 at Jim Whelan Boardwalk Hall) and Diana Ross (Oct. 25 at Ocean Casino Resort). Set inside the meticulously restored Warner Theater, The Hook by Spiegelworld, the team behind some of Las Vegas' most popular shows, is a raucous, year-round production celebrating Atlantic City's golden age.

TPG tip: Opened last year and occupying the top three floors of Caesars' Centurion Tower, Nobu Atlantic City is an 82-room, Japanese-inspired retreat — you're greeted with green tea and oshibori — from the city's hustle and bustle. Room rates start at $135 in October. Ocean Casino Resort's crisp and beachy accommodations are also great, with nightly rates in October starting at $99.

Brisbane, Australia

No longer hiding in the shadows of Sydney and Melbourne, Brisbane — Australia's third-largest city and Queensland's capital — has blossomed into a worldly yet laid-back destination. With pleasant October temperatures hovering in the mid- to high 70s, Brisbane is an urban paradise for outdoor lovers, whether you want to soak in the rays at Streets Beach (a unique human-made beach) or get up close to wildlife at Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary.

The city's restaurant landscape has also been garnering attention recently. Leading the pack are the ambitious tasting-menu concept Exhibition, wood-fired Agnes, and Middle Eastern-inspired Gerard's Bistro.

TPG tip: Since 2018, the W Brisbane has been one of the city's hippest places to hang your hat. Rooms are available from $359 or 41,000 Marriott Bonvoy points per night in October.

Chilean Patagonia

Long considered a bucket-list destination, Chilean Patagonia is known for its thrilling landscapes of mountains, glaciers and lakes; diverse wildlife from penguins to pumas; and abundant recreational opportunities for outdoor enthusiasts (fly fishing, horseback riding, mountain biking).

October is an especially strategic time to plan a trip, as it falls within shoulder season before the peak summer rush. Crowds won't be an issue, and accommodations are more affordable than during peak times.

Another perk? You'll be among the first to witness the world-famous Torres del Paine National Park come back to life — guanaco bushes bloom for a few short weeks starting in October — after a long winter rest.