Title: Kim Young-dae helps Shin Mina avoid No Gain No Love
Source: Dramabeans.com
URL: https://www.dramabeans.com/2024/07/kim-young-dae-helps-shin-mina-avoid-no-gain-no-love/
--------------------------------------------------

Kim Young-dae helps Shin Mina avoid No Gain No Love

by tccolb

tvN has come out with a new teaser for No Gain No Loss, giving us a teeny insight into our rom-com’s setup, with our resourceful Shin Mina (Our Blues) hoping for a 3-day husband in Kim Young-dae (Moon in the Day).

The teaser begins from the viewpoint of our part-timer hero Kim Ji-wook (Kim Young-dae) when he notices Sohn Hae-young’s (Shin Mina) advert on our story’s Pumpkin Market – a fun spoof on the popular Carrot Market in South Korea. But Hae-young isn’t looking for a fairytale carriage or prince. Rather, she wants a temporary bridegroom for just three days and is offering a non-negotiable payment of 200,000 won – a check point for Ji-wook.

As Ji-wook scans through Hae-young’s post in the sequence, he notes that everything will be prepared on her end and the accepted candidate will only need to follow the script. The included filming schedule is hilariously efficient, packing in the proposal, dress try-on reaction, and wedding rehearsal all before the ceremony on day three – the ring and tuxedo provided of course. Most importantly, the job will be paid after the final act at Incheon airport on that third day.

Under the terms, Hae-young also expresses a preference for the jobless, but freelancers can apply. Here, though, Ji-wook pauses to scratch out the highlighted point that candidates who are exceptionally good-looking may not be eligible. An apprehensive Ji-wook thus initiates a chat and asks, “Why are you looking for a groom on here?” The teaser then ends on Hae-young’s bright response, “Because I want no loss.”

Written by Kim Hye-young (Her Private Life) with PD Kim Jung-shik (Work Later, Drink Now) directing, tvN’s No Gain No Loss premieres next month on August 26, following Serendipity’s Embrace in the Monday-Tuesday slot.

Via Sports Donga, News

RELATED POSTS