Title: NCT's Jaehyun Takes New Platinum Hair for a Spin at Prada's Spring-Summer 2025 Show
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/nct-jaehyun-prada-spring-summer-2025-show-look
--------------------------------------------------

NCT's Jaehyun Takes New Platinum Hair for a Spin at Prada's Spring-Summer 2025 Show

The star opted for an all-black look, his second of the week, for the event.

NCT's Jaehyun has had a busy summer, but it looks like he's not planning on slowing down anytime soon. Following the release of his debut solo EP, J - The 1st Album, in August, the singer and actor is fulfilling his fashion duties as a brand ambassador and jetting off to Milan to attend Prada's spring-summer 2025 womenswear show.

Jaehyun arrived at the show's venue rocking an all-black look featuring a knitted vest, tailored pants, heeled brogues, and a long leather coat that screamed fall. The jacket featured a subtle take on the brand's triangle logo on the back, giving the look a quiet luxury twist.

Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesJaehyun styled his newly dyed platinum-blonde 'do with his hair pushed back behind his ears, opting for hairspray instead of gel and skipping the usual wet-look effect. To add the finishing touches, he wore two fringe pieces delicately framing his face and letting the makeup be minimal.

Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesBefore the show, his first womenswear show IRL, Jaehyun surprised fans with his new hair color after being spotted en route to MFW at South Korea's Incheon Airport. The star, who had been rocking his natural dark hair since mid-2023, posed for photographers before boarding his flight with the new 'do.

Also in contrast to the almost white hair, he rocked another all-black outfit comprised of a zip-up knitted turtleneck, slightly loose crepe pants, and smoothly polished loafers. As far as accessories went, Jaehyun kept it simple, carrying a large Prada buckle leather handbag, which features a belt-like closure, that he adorned with some trendy keychains. He also wore a twisted leather belt with the iconic triangle Prada logo, which was first used by Mario Prada, the brand's founder, in 1913.

Han Myung-GuThough his busy schedule means Jaehyun doesn't always have time to jet off to Milan to physically attend the multiple shows the iconic Italian house puts on, the NCT member has always waved the flag for Prada since his appointment as a global ambassador in 2022—whether it's rocking pieces from the brand in his downtime, in editorials, or attending brand pop-ups across the globe.

That said, the last time we saw Jaehyun in attendance at a Prada show was this past June, when he traveled to Milan as a guest for the spring-summer 2025 menswear show. For the occasion, the star chose to go for an ab-baring Canadian tuxedo moment that went down as one of his most memorable looks to date.