Title: Is The Labubu Craze Ending? Prices Are Down And Inventory Is Up As Eyes Turn To A New Toy.
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/maryroeloffs/2025/10/08/is-the-labubu-craze-ending-prices-are-down-and-inventory-is-up-as-eyes-turn-to-a-new-toy/
--------------------------------------------------

Topline

Labubu dolls are suddenly more available than they’ve been in months as retailers like Amazon, Target and Walmart list verified versions of the toy for affordable prices in a sign shoppers’ insatiable appetites may be curbing, but another Pop Mart doll is poised to take center stage.

Key Facts

Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts:We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739or sign up here: joinsubtext.com/forbes.

What To Watch For

The next big thing. Another Pop Mart plush called the Hirono Living Wild Doll soared in popularity this week after a member of the Korean boyband BTS named V, aka Kim Taehyung, was seen with one at Incheon Airport. Within hours, the same doll sold out on Pop Mart's website in China with upwards of 500 units reportedly sold. The Hirono Living Wild Doll is currently listed for resale on eBay for as much as $175—more than triple its original price.

Key Background

The Labubu toy was designed by artist Kasing Lung a decade ago and first debuted in a picture book called “The Monsters Trilogy” in 2015. Lung licensed his designs to Pop Mart in 2019 and the company turned them into collectible toys. Labubus have skyrocketed in popularity over the last year thanks largely to endorsements from celebrities like Lisa from the K-pop group Blackpink, Rihanna and Dua Lipa, and also through TikTok “unboxing” videos that shot them to viral fame. Fans have lined up at Pop Mart stores and vending machines for hours, even traveling overseas to get their hands on one, CNBC reported. Pop Mart pulled the dolls from all U.K. stores following reports of customers fighting over them earlier this year. In August, the Better Business Bureau issued a warning to online shoppers after dozens of people reported they've fallen for scams when trying to buy the dolls and, in some cases, lost hundreds of dollars.

Big Number

$43. That's what shares of Pop Mart stock were trading for at the end of August, its highest point in the last year. Shares were trading at $32.80 on Wednesday, a 24% drop from the stock's peak.

Forbes Valuation

Wang Ning, 38-year-old founder of toy maker Pop Mart International Group, has an estimated net worth of $20.5 billion. In September, when the first signs of a cooling demand for Labubus emerged, Ning's net worth plummeted by almost $6 billion in less than a month. He joined the ranks of China’s top 10 billionaires for the first time in June. Pop Mart went public in Hong Kong in 2020.