Title: Trump Administration Says Sudden Closure of Texas Air Space Was to 'Neutralize' a 'Cartel Drone Incursion' as Flight Ban Is Lifted
Source: PEOPLE
URL: https://people.com/trump-administration-says-sudden-closure-of-texas-air-space-was-to-neutralize-a-cartel-drone-incursion-as-flight-ban-is-lifted-11904486
--------------------------------------------------

The sudden closure of air space around El Paso, Texas, on Tuesday night was due to a military operation involving cartel drones, the Trump administration has revealed.

Hours after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced a shocking 10-day ban on all commercial flights in the area surrounding El Paso Airport the rule was lifted. Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy took to X on the morning of Wednesday, Feb. 11, to explain what he says occurred.

"The FAA and DOW acted swiftly to address a cartel drone incursion," Duffy wrote. "The threat has been neutralized, and there is no danger to commercial travel in the region. The restrictions have been lifted and normal flights are resuming."

The announcement left many questioning why the initial flight ban was planned to last for 10 days, however, no additional clarification has been provided.

At 8:32 p.m. local time on Tuesday, the FAA announced in a NOTAM, or "notice to airmen," that "No pilots may operate an aircraft in the areas covered by this NOTAM" citing “special security reasons."

The agency also said the federal government “may use deadly force” if an aircraft violating the airspace is determined to pose “an imminent security threat,” per The New York Times.

It did not elaborate on the security issues. According to NBC News, the issued NOTAM said the airspace was classified as national defense airspace.

The initial restriction was set to be in place for 10 days from Feb. 10 until 11:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 20, causing major travel disruptions in the transit hub.

In a statement obtained by The New York Times, El Paso Airport told the outlet that the FAA issued the restriction “on short notice" and they were waiting for more guidance.

Speaking about the news, Texas state Rep. Vince Perez of El Paso told the outlet, “I have never heard of an American airspace being shutdown for 10 days, absent a major emergency.”

However, hours later, the ban was lifted.

In a post on X at 6:54 a.m. local time, the FAA stated, "The temporary closure of airspace over El Paso has been lifted. There is no threat to commercial aviation. All flights will resume as normal."

PEOPLE has contacted the FAA and El Paso Airport for further comment.