Title: Lounge Review: Singapore Airlines SilverKris Lounge – Incheon International Airport (ICN) Terminal 1
Source: Theshutterwhale.com
URL: https://theshutterwhale.com/blog/2024/6/24/lounge-review-singapore-airlines-silverkris-lounge-incheon-international-airport-icn-terminal-1
--------------------------------------------------

Located near Boarding Gate 29, the Singapore Airlines SilverKris Lounge in Incheon International Airport (ICN) can be easily accessed using the escalators across from the Korean Traditional Culture Center. The operating hours of the SilverKris Lounge is subject to change according to Singapore Airlines’ flight schedule so if you are a premium passenger departing on a Star Alliance carrier, you might want to check ahead in advance to make sure the lounge is open before heading there - alternatively, the Asiana Business Lounge is just a stone’s throw away.

All premium cabin passengers (including those with Star Alliance Gold status) departing on an eligible flight will be able to access the SilverKris Lounge at Incheon International Airport. Access to the lounge is fairly easy with the automated gates - scan your boarding pass to gain entry. Even though the SilverKris Lounge opened in June 2023, I did not manage to visit it last year when I departed from ICN in April 2023 - I had to use the Asiana Business Lounge nearby which was fairly underwhelming. Fortunately, the SilverKris Lounge offers a much better experience and even though the lounge does not take up as much space, the F&B offerings are decent.

The first thing you will probably notice is the absence of a dedicated area for Solitaire PPS Club or PPS Club members. With that being said, the décor and abundance of natural daylight in the lounge makes it a very pleasant spot to hang out before your flight. Depending on who you are traveling with, you may choose to take advantage of the various seating configurations. There is a bar located in the center of the lounge and this is where you can order yourself a proper barista-style coffee or a glass of Champagne if that is something you prefer.

Unlike the Asiana Business Lounge which has a rather limited selection of food, the SilverKris Lounge has a good selection of both cold and hot food - Singapore Laksa is also available upon request. I also appreciate the fact that some Singaporean dishes (as opposed to just a generic international selection) are offered in the lounge. While I do enjoy eating Korean food quite a fair bit, it is nice to be able to enjoy some comfort food before the flight.

The SilverKris Lounge in Incheon International Airport is beautiful and since I got to the airport slightly ahead of time, it was relatively quiet until it was about an hour away from the scheduled time of departure. As mentioned earlier, the lounge operating hours are dependent on the Singapore Airlines’ flight schedule out of Incheon and therefore, you do not really see as many premium cabin passengers from other Star Alliance carriers here during the day.

Located on one end of the lounge are these comfortable booth-like seats that offer a little bit more privacy - it is also not too far away from the bar area which makes it the perfect spot for me personally. The SilverKris Lounge here in Incheon International Airport also follows the ‘home concept’ that is designed to showcase Singapore Airlines’ unique heritage

As far as universal power outlets and USB charging ports go, Seoul is amazing for international travellers. All of my recent stays in hotels like the Andaz Seoul Gangnam, as well as The Ambassador Seoul - A Pullman Hotel, have led me to believe that all hotels in Seoul offer an abundance of charging ports for their in-house guests. The SilverKris Lounge is no exception, offering plenty of these modern conveniences for international travellers who want to charge up their devices (or to work on their laptops) before the flight out.

Apart from the spread on the buffet table, you may also choose to order a bowl of Singapore Laksa from one of the lounge staff - there is no dedicated station but since I saw the sign near the bar, I decided to pass my order on to the nice lady there (who also poured me a glass of Champagne while I waited for my bowl of noodles to be ready). There was also a small selection of instant noodles if that is something you prefer but honestly, there is no real reason to order this unless you have some kind of weird craving for it.

After spending the last two weeks eating mainly Korean food, I was happy to see some local Singaporean dishes like roti prata, curry chicken and laksa. Apparently, the food at the SilverKris Lounge are mostly catered from the Grand Hyatt and they were all of high quality.

The bar has got to be my favourite spot in the entire SilverKris Lounge - it is located in the middle with plenty of bar stools available if you wish to be right next to it. For travellers who enjoy a glass of sparkling wine, the SilverKris Lounge in ICN offers the Champagne Heidsieck & Co Monopole Blue Top Brut. I had not tasted this before the lounge visit, but it was rather pleasant.

A small selection of cocktails (and mocktails) are also available upon request - there is a printed menu available near the bar. Even though I prefer the SilverKris Lounge over the Asiana Business Lounge by a mile, I did wish that they took the opportunity to showcase some local spirits instead. I remember having the Hwajo 41 premium soju at the Asiana Business Lounge when I visited last year but I do not remember seeing any locally-produced or distilled spirits on the lounge.

The Singapore Airlines SilverKris Lounge is one of my favourite SilverKris Lounges with stunning interiors and a solid F&B experience. Even though the lounge is not exactly huge, I love that it never gets too crowded due to its operating hours, and I prefer this over the Asiana Business Lounge next door. Even though I did not use any of the shower facilities, private shower suites are available in the lounge for those looking to freshen up before their flight. With all that being said, I am very curious to check out the new Oneworld Lounge at the airport but I am still putting that off since there are no direct flights on a Oneworld carrier between Incheon and Singapore.