Title: Prince William Will Celebrate the Earthshot Prize in Singapore—And See the World’s Tallest Indoor Waterfall
Source: Vanity Fair
URL: https://www.vanityfair.com/style/2023/10/prince-william-earthshot-prize-in-singapore-schedule
--------------------------------------------------

Style

Dua Lipa and Callum Turner Wind Down Wedding Weekend With Quiet Day at Villa Igiea

After a marathon celebration, newlyweds Dua Lipa and Callum Turner bid their VIP wedding guests farewell.

Style

Princess Märtha Louise of Norway and Her Shaman Husband Are Headed to Reality TV

One of Norway’s most eccentric public figures joins the very private club of royals who have taken part in a reality TV show.

Style

Horses, Hats and Harriet Sperling: The Royal Family Keeps Queen Elizabeth's Tradition Alive at the Royal Ascot

It’s off to the races as the royal family suits up and steps out for the five-day event in Berkshire.

Politics

Police Are Looking Into New Allegations Involving Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor

Including an accusation that the man formerly known as Prince Andrew “behaved inappropriately” toward a waitress at the Royal Ascot horse racing event in 2002.

Style

Will Kate Middleton Visit the United States This Summer?

America’s 250th anniversary coincides with the World Cup, events that could see the Princess of Wales travel stateside.

Royals

King Charles Is Opening Up the Official Residence of the Monarchy In Scotland to the Public

Through September, Holyroodhouse will offer tours of the late Queen’s private rooms.

Style

The Princess of Wales Wears Lapis Lazuli Necklace During Visit to Cancer Center

Princess Kate wore a piece she first sported during lockdown and later wore during a moving visit to Manchester four years ago.

Royals

Soon She’ll Be the Queen of Belgium. But for the Last Two Years, She Was the Princess of Harvard.

On Wednesday and Thursday, Crown Princess Elisabeth is graduating from Harvard’s prestigious Kennedy School of Government with a master’s of public policy.

Style

Kate Middleton Takes on New Position at Trooping the Colour

At Saturday's celebration of the King's birthday, Princess Kate was seated on a dais alongside King Charles and Queen Camilla for the first time in the event's history.

Movies

How Jane Rosenthal and Robert De Niro Built the Tribeca Festival

On the fest’s 25th anniversary, De Niro’s longtime partner speaks about Tribeca’s post-9/11 origins, its expansion over the decades, and the time Hugh Grant had to give a speech there after Nelson Mandela.

Style

Dua Lipa and Callum Turner Marry In Sicily, As Elton John Serenades Them With “Your Song”

Dua Lipa and Callum Turner's Italian celebration has already been compared to a royal wedding in its grandeur, and a Saturday ceremony in the beautiful Villa Valguarnera proved that analogy was apt.