Title: Ranked: The Best Airlines In 2025, According To A New Report
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/laurabegleybloom/2025/02/10/ranked-the-best-airlines-in-2025-according-to-a-new-report/
--------------------------------------------------

What are the best airlines in the world? In a time when travelers are more discerning than ever, factors like seat comfort, reliability, onboard amenities and overall passenger experience play a major role in the flying experience.

To help travelers navigate their options, AirlineRatings.com considered all those factors when putting together its new 2025 World’s Best Airlines Awards, which highlights the carriers that stand out in a rapidly evolving industry.

This year, AirlineRatings added a hybrid category to recognize airlines that blend elements of full-service and low-cost models. “For years, airlines have fallen into two distinct categories: low-cost carriers and full-service airlines,” AirlineRatings CEO Sharon Petersen told me in an interview. “Low-cost carriers are known for minimal frills—think tight seat pitch and a pay-as-you-go model for everything from food to entertainment. In contrast, full-service airlines offer a more inclusive experience, with larger seat pitch, complimentary meals, drinks, in-flight entertainment and amenities like blankets and pillows included in the ticket price.”

According to Petersen, hybrid airlines combine elements from both models on short to medium haul routes. “Many legacy American and European carriers have adopted this approach, where meals and snacks are typically sold onboard, but non-alcoholic drinks are still complimentary,” says Petersen. “Blankets, pillows and in-flight entertainment may be offered on request, available for purchase or omitted entirely.”

The catch with hybrids—the unpredictability. “You might not know exactly what’s included,” says Petersen. “By comparison, full-service airlines guarantee an all-inclusive experience, while low-cost carriers make it clear you'll pay for extras.”

Another important thing to note: “Hybrid carriers will offer a traditional premium full service offering to all passengers on long haul routes such as meals, drink, seat back screens in economy and lie-flat beds with premium meals and amenities in business class,” says Petersen.

Besides the hybrid category, AirlineRatings also ranks the full-service airlines, the low-cost carriers, airlines by cabin class and more.

Airline Of The Year

The World’s Best Airline: Korean Air

For 2025, Korean Air is named the world’s best airline, which AirlineRatings celebrates for its commitment to excellence, innovation and, above all, passenger comfort.

In an era when many airlines are squeezing more seats into economy cabins, Korean Air is taking a different approach—prioritizing passenger comfort over cost-cutting. “This year, the spotlight on economy class space propelled Korean Air from second place last year to the top spot,” says Petersen. “Korean Air’s economy class stands out for its generous seat pitch and width, providing a superior experience for travelers.”

In addition to this, economy class passengers are given extra comforts such as slippers and larger meal portions.

According to AirlineRatings, Korean Air’s business class experience is also widely praised, particularly on aircraft equipped with its Prestige 2.0 seats, which offer enhanced privacy, comfort and functionality.

Best Full-Service Airlines

Korean Air

AirlineRatings highlights the best airlines across different categories. With its generous seat dimensions and exceptional service, Korean Air is the winner in the full-service category.

Qatar Airways

Coming in second on the list is Qatar Airways, which was the winner in AirlineRatings’s 2024 awards. According to Petersen, the airline “still offers an outstanding economy experience, though it provides slightly less space per passenger compared to Korean Air.”

Qatar also dominates in the business class space, thanks to its award-winning Qsuite and excellent premium offerings.

Air New Zealand

Air New Zealand rounds out the top three. “Air New Zealand continues to excel across all cabins—economy, premium economy and business class,” says Petersen. “Where Air New Zealand truly stands out is with their innovative Skycouch, a game-changer for families or couples traveling together.”

Air New Zealand also holds the title of the world’s safest airline in AirlineRatings’ ranking of the safest airlines.

Best Hybrid Airlines

JetBlue

The winner of the new hybrid category is JetBlue. According to Petersen, the carrier nearly matches the full-service carriers, with the only exception being the need to purchase onboard meals. “Its offerings include free Wi-Fi, live TV, in-flight entertainment, complimentary small snacks and non-alcoholic drinks, spacious economy seating (32 to 33 inches) and a premium Mint class with lie-flat seats on select routes,” she says.

WestJet

Coming in second is WestJet, which provides complimentary snacks, non-alcoholic drinks and in-flight entertainment via screens or an app, along with a premium cabin offering extra legroom and upgraded meals. Larger snacks, meals, alcoholic beverages and Wi-Fi are available for purchase, but WestJet's economy seating has a smaller pitch (30 to 31 inches). “While both airlines strike a balance between affordability and quality, JetBlue’s broader range of complimentary perks gives it the edge,” says Petersen.

Virgin Australia

Virgin Australia comes in third. The airline offers free in-flight entertainment and non-alcoholic beverages, but does not provide free snacks or blankets and pillows. “Compared to other major carriers like the big three American airlines, Virgin offers fewer amenities,” says Petersen.

However, Virgin Australia customer feedback and its consistently awarded cabin crew help it maintain a strong position. “A notable advantage Virgin offers is the ability for families traveling with infants (on certain fares) to check in a 23kg bag instead of the standard pram, car seat or cot—something that many parents find more valuable,” says Petersen.

Best Low-Cost Carriers

AirAsia

The competition between AirAsia and Jetstar was tight, with just one point separating them. According to Petersen, AirAsia X, the long-haul arm of AirAsia, won for its mix of affordable fares and premium options—including lie-flat beds in premium, child-free quiet zones and flexible economy fares. “This allows passengers to select their ideal balance of comfort and affordability on long-haul journeys,” says Petersen.

Jetstar

Jetstar, which came in second, also offers excellent choices for medium to long-haul travel, providing passengers the ability to fly within their desired budget and comfort level. “Both airlines stand out for their affordable fares and extensive route networks,” says Petersen. “The key differentiator, however, was the child-free zone, which our viewers particularly appreciated.”

AirBaltic

AirBaltic made a significant jump this year to the number three spot. What gave it an edge: its modern Airbus A220 fleet and plans to equip all A220-300 aircraft with SpaceX's Starlink in-flight connectivity. “This upgrade will provide seamless, high-speed internet access for every passenger, free from login pages or hassles,” says Petersen. “Additionally, customer feedback from AirBaltic passengers further solidified their place in the top three this year.”

Best Ultra-Low-Cost Airlines

VietJet

VietJet is the winner of the best ultra-low-cost carrier award. It snagged this spot, thanks to its ability to redefine affordability while maintaining quality and customer satisfaction.

“VietJet has mastered the art of delivering exceptional value to passengers, combining competitive fares with a reliable and innovative service model,” says Petersen “Their ability to make air travel accessible to millions without compromising on safety or efficiency sets them apart. In addition to this, our onboard reviews have noticed time and time again the dedication of their crew to help all passengers and that is something we highly regard.”

Cebu Pacific

The ultra low cost carrier runner up is Cebu Pacific. This carrier is based in the Philippines and is known for providing affordable air travel options throughout the Asia-Pacific region and beyond.

Best Airlines: U.S. Carriers

The new hybrid list was a boon for the U.S. airlines. “The American airlines really excel in this area. They have dominated that hybrid category,” says Petersen. “JetBlue, Delta and United all made strong showings in the hybrid rankings.”

Southwest, on the other hand, didn’t do as well this year—taking a dip in the low-cost category.

Rankings By Cabin

The 2025 World’s Best Airlines Awards also looked at airlines by cabin class.

Best Economy Class: Korean Air

Korean Air won for best economy class. “Korean Air has set the benchmark in economy class with its spacious seating and exceptional comfort,” says Petersen.

Best Premium Economy: A Tie

Petersen says the biggest surprise this year was the tie for premium economy. “It’s always a highly competitive category, but Qantas and Emirates were neck and neck, with no clear winner—an unusual outcome,” says Petersen.

Best Business Class: Qatar Airways

In business class, Qatar Airways took the award again, thanks to its Qsuite, a fully enclosed private suite with sliding doors. The Qsuite also has a compelling feature for two people traveling together: It allows two adjacent suites to convert into a double bed configuration. Expect more innovations to come: “Qatar will soon elevate it further with the launch of the Qsuite Next Gen, featuring wider seats, longer beds, enhanced privacy and upgraded technology,” says Petersen.

Best First Class: Singapore Airlines

Singapore Airlines won best first class for its ultra-luxurious Skyroom Suites on the A380, which have sliding doors, tons of space, a separate foldout flatbed and luxurious soft goods (premium bedding, a duvet and plush pillows).

Best Value Premium Economy: Vietnam Airlines

Vietnam Airlines won best value premium economy for providing a comfortable experience with spacious 2-3-2 seating, priority boarding and USB charging ports—all at an affordable price.

More Winners

The 2025 World’s Best Airlines Awards also looked at other aspects of the flying experience.

Best Crew

Virgin Australia was recognized for best cabin crew, praised for its consistency and service across all flights.

Best Lounges

Qantas took the title for best airline lounges.

Best Airport

Singapore Changi was once again named the best airport, recognized for its ease of travel, innovative design and premium facilities.

Did Airline Safety Issues Affect Rankings?

Have all the recent high-profile airline safety incidents impacted the rankings? “To be considered a best airline you have to be a seven star safety rated airline, and none of the airlines considered this year have changed their rating from last year,” says Petersen.

Petersen points out that the company’s safest airlines list focuses on safety, while the World’s Best Airlines Awards are centered on passenger comfort, feedback and product consistency across an airline’s route network. “These awards are not a popularity contest; rather, each airline is thoroughly evaluated based on what it offers passengers throughout its fleet and network,” she says.

Read on for the lists of the best full-service airlines, hybrid airlines and low-cost airlines. You can get more details on all the world’s best airlines in the full AirlineRatings.com report.

Ranked: 25 Best Full-Service Airlines

Korean Air

Qatar Airways

Air New Zealand

Cathay Pacific

Singapore Airlines

Emirates

Japan Airlines

Qantas

Etihad

Turkish Airlines

EVA Air

Fiji Airways

Virgin Atlantic

ANA

AeroMexico

Air Caraibes

Thai Airways

Starlux

Vietnam Airlines

SriLankan Airlines

Air France

KLM

Air Calin

Air Mauritius

Garuda Indonesia

Ranked: Best Hybrid Airlines

JetBlue

WestJet

Virgin Australia

Delta Airlines

United

American Airlines

Lufthansa

Air Canada

LOT Polish Airlines

TAP Portugal

Alaska Airlines

SWISS

Avianca

Iberia

British Airways

Finnair

Austrian Airlines

Hawaiian Airlines

ITA

SAS

Ranked: Best Low-Cost Airlines

AirAsia

Jetstar

AirBaltic

HK Express

EasyJet

FlyDubai

Ryanair

Scoot

Breeze

Southwest

SKY Airline

FlyNas

TUI

Norwegian

IndiGo

Air Arabia

Volaris

Jet2

Wizz Air

Vueling

MORE FROM FORBES:

ForbesRanked: The 50 Best Cities In The World, According To Time OutForbesReport Ranks America’s Safest Cities For 2025