Title: Smuggling Ring Busted In South Korea With More Than 1,800 Exotic Animals Worth $1.5 Million
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/smuggling-ring-busted-in-south-korea-with-more-than-1800-exotic-animals-worth-1-5-million/
--------------------------------------------------

A group of smugglers were caught at Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) as they attempted to bring exotic animals into the country. Animals were smuggled in from Thailand and 14 individuals are involved in this operation.

Smuggling exotic animals from Thailand is big business and passengers are frequently busted with snakes, alligators, lizards, and all sorts of other animals. They’re hidden in boxes and even tucked into passengers’ underwear in order to get them through customs. In this apprehension, members of this group were found with a young Komodo dragon (measuring 19.6 inches) wrapped in cloth and concealed in underwear. Baby snakes were found curled up in cigarette boxes.

The Korea Times reports that since July 2022, the suspects are alleged to have smuggled 1,865 exotic animals, which are valued at around $1.5 million from Thailand and Indonesia. Many of the species brought into South Korea are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). Animals like Komodo dragons, Burmese star tortoises, emerald tree boas, and Yangtze alligators fetch high prices by collectors.

An Incheon Airport Customs official said:

The live animals seized, including two Komodo dragons, have been transferred to the National Institute of Ecology for protection. Smuggling exotic species disrupts ecosystems and poses a threat to public safety. We plan to intensify border controls to prevent such serious crimes.”

Bringing animals (either live or dead) into another country is nothing new. I’ve covered tons of incidents involving smuggling including mummified monkeys being smuggled into Boston Logan International Airport (BOS) (more here), six people being arrested after smuggling 1,966 cartons filled with duck and goose intestines, duck blood, and hawthorn fruit from China into the United States (more here), and six Indian Nationals attempting to smuggle 87 rare and exotic animals from Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi International Airport (BKK) to Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (BOM) (more here).

Anthony’s Take: My heart breaks for the poor animals being stuffed into containers, bags, and even underwear. Many suffer and die in transit. I’m glad this group has been caught, but there are countless others out there doing the same thing.

(Image Credits: Incheon Airport Customs and Thai Customs.)