Title: Plug Power (PLUG) Signs Supply Deal for Electrolyzer Systems with Allied Biofuels
Source: Yahoo Entertainment
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/plug-power-plug-signs-supply-023427053.html
--------------------------------------------------

Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG) is one of the 12 Best American Penny Stocks to Buy Right Now. On October 30, Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG) shared that it signed a binding supply agreement with Allied Biofuels FE LLC (ABF) for up to 2 gigawatts (GW) of GenEco PEM electrolyzer systems.

This deal will help ABF develop sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), electro-sustainable aviation fuel (eSAF), and green diesel. According to the report by Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG), the final investment decision is expected in the fourth quarter of 2026.

Previously, Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG) partnered with Allied Green Ammonia in Australia for 3 GW. With this new supply agreement for 2 GW with ABF, the total contracted electrolyzer capacity between Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG) and its Allied partners has now reached 5 GW.

The company’s technology will be used at ABF’s sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) and electro-sustainable aviation fuel (eSAF) plant in Uzbekistan, a strategically chosen site that can serve global sustainable fuel markets.

Plug Power Inc. (NASDAQ:PLUG) is a global company specializing in hydrogen fuel-supply solutions. It provides electrolyzers, liquid hydrogen, fuel cell systems, storage tanks, and fueling infrastructure to various industries, including material handling, industrial applications, and energy producers.

While we acknowledge the potential of PLUG as an investment, we believe certain AI stocks offer greater upside potential and carry less downside risk. If you’re looking for an extremely undervalued AI stock that also stands to benefit significantly from Trump-era tariffs and the onshoring trend, see our free report on the best short-term AI stock.

READ NEXT: 10 Stocks Under $20 to Buy According to Analysts and 12 Best Performing Stocks in the Last 3 Months.