Title: Prince William arrives in Singapore for Earthshot ceremony
Source: Sky.com
URL: https://news.sky.com/story/prince-william-arrives-in-singapore-for-earthshot-ceremony-13001340
--------------------------------------------------

Prince William has arrived in Singapore, where he'll announce the winners of his Earthshot Prize, a £1m award for green innovators.

The Prince of Wales said it was "fantastic to be back" as crowds gathered around the world's largest indoor waterfall at Changi Airport.

Travelling without the Princess of Wales, who stayed at home to help Prince George with school exams, Prince William's welcome started at Jewel, a tropical garden dome set inside the terminal building.

He then met some of those who'd waited to see him, including an eight-month-old baby who decided to suck on his finger.

Earthshot, named after President Kennedy's famous Moonshot prize, offers five £1m awards to companies working on solutions to the climate crisis.

Two of this year's 15 finalists are from the UK - Norwich-based Colorfix, a business making natural fabric dyes, and Enzo, a London tyre firm that supplies electric cars.

A number of big names are lined up to take part in this year's ceremony, which will be hosted by Ted Lasso star Hannah Waddingham and Black Panther actor Sterling K Brown.

Prince William said: "Let us all take inspiration from the fantastic work being done here as we celebrate this year's Earthshot Prize finalists."

Singapore is considered the greenest city in Asia and several iconic local landmarks will light up in green to mark the ceremony.

Some have questioned the climate credentials of flying finalists all the way to Singapore, but Kensington Palace argues this is balanced by the benefits of highlighting the green innovations showcased in the awards.

These awards are now in their third year and are said to be a deeply personal project for Prince William.

Read more:

Prince given Blue Peter badge for launching Earthshot Prize

Prince and Princess of Wales searching for chief executive officer with 'low ego'

Following his father, who as King cannot be as outspoken, the Prince of Wales has taken on the mantle of campaigning about the climate crisis and the need for sustainable solutions.

At the late Queen Elizabeth's Platinum Jubilee last year, it was Prince William who took to the stage outside Buckingham Palace and made a speech highlighting the environmental issues.

Coming just days after the King's state visit to Kenya, these trips are an opportunity for a bit of royal PR on the global stage.

Two events cast a shadow over last year's Earthshot Prize in Boston: the Buckingham Palace race row, and the release of Prince Harry's Netflix trailer.

Kensington Palace will be hoping this three-day trip will pass without distraction or drama.