Title: Taxi drivers welcome permanent surcharge at Mandai, Changi Airport, but will not drive there if inconvenient
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/surcharge-taxi-drivers-changi-airport-mandai-zoo-4435441
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Taxi drivers welcomed permanent surcharges on rides from Changi Airport and Mandai Wildlife Reserve, but some said they still would not go out of their way to drive to these far-flung locations.

“I wouldn’t go all the way to Mandai just for S$5 (US$3.70),” said one taxi driver.

The drivers spoke to CNA after taxi companies announced that the temporary hike to the taxi surcharges to these locations would be made permanent from Jul 1.

ComfortDelGro and Strides Premier announced the permanent surcharge on their Facebook pages on Monday (Jun 24), while Trans-Cab and Prime Taxi confirmed this to the media on Monday as well.

The S$8 daily surcharge for taxi trips from Changi Airport between 5pm and 11.59pm, and S$6 at all other times, was first introduced in May 2022, before being extended.

The temporary surcharge for rides from the Singapore Zoo, River Wonders, Night Safari and Bird Paradise for trips between 1pm and 11.59pm daily will also be made permanent from Jul 1, with the fee increasing from S$3 to S$5.

INCENTIVE TO DRIVE TO MANDAI

For taxi driver Maslan Masjor, 61, the surcharges being made permanent is a welcome move, as he thinks it is “risky” to drive a long distance to the Mandai attractions in case a customer cancels their reservation.

It is about 1.5km from the pickup point at the Singapore Zoo to the entrance at Mandai Road.

“If we drive in, but then they see a cab alighting with a passenger, they may just take that cab instead,” he said.

To get another customer, he may then have to queue with other cabs at the taxi stand.

“You would have wasted your petrol and your time, when you could have gone to Bukit Batok or Pasir Panjang,” said Mr Maslan.

This is why he occasionally declines bookings from the Mandai attractions if he does not want to take this risk.

But he said that with the S$5 surcharge, it will make it more worthwhile to drive all the way in and pick someone else up instead, even if there is a queue.

“It’s a good move, because if there is no surcharge, we wouldn’t want to turn in and waste our time,” he said.

Agreeing, taxi driver Leong Yew Chye said that the time when most visitors at the wildlife attractions want to take a cab home is about 5pm to 6pm, which is also when it is lucrative for taxi drivers to head to the city to pick up the post-work crowd.

“Sometimes at 6pm, drivers can go to the city or the airport, which is much more attractive with better fares,” said the 53-year-old.

“(But) with the S$5 surcharge, I will come.”

Mr Maslan added that the surcharge would be especially helpful for passengers trying to get a cab at the Mandai attractions on the weekends.

Passengers there have in the past messaged him on ride-hailing applications to offer extra cash on top of the stipulated fare just to ensure they have a ride out.

“On weekends it is different, people can offer S$10 extra to take a taxi, because they know it is difficult to get one.”

As for the S$8 and S$6 surcharges at the airport, Mr Maslan said it would be helpful in enhancing fares for shorter trips.

This is because taxi drivers who go to the airport often have to spend time queuing, and are hoping for a ride that goes further and is of a higher fare.

“If someone says they want to go to Tampines, the driver won’t be smiling the whole ride, because he could have waited for one hour in the queue,” he said.

“It’s good that even when they have to go to Tampines (from the airport), there is a surcharge.”

WON'T CHANGE DRIVING HABITS

However, some cabbies also said that while the surcharge is a welcome incentive, it would not change their driving habits.

Cab driver Yap Yew Ming said he would only drive to Mandai or Changi Airport when it is convenient, and not solely for the surcharge.

“If we really pass by (the area), then we will come in,” said the 52-year-old. “Or else, we don’t need to purposely come in.”

Agreeing, one driver who only wanted to be known as Mr Low said he would only accept a booking from the Mandai attractions if he was nearby.

“If I am at Woodlands, Yishun, Choa Chu Kang, no problem. But if I am at Ang Mo Kio, no way,” said the 50-year-old.

As for whether he would make the trip to Changi Airport for the surcharge, he said it depends on other factors.

For instance, if he has just dropped a passenger off at Tampines or Pasir Ris he might go to the airport, but only if he hears there is a long queue of customers waiting for taxis or if there are flights landing around that time.

“(The surcharges are) an overall positive, but the pick-up locations cannot be too far, and the queues cannot be too long, so it depends.”

Responding to queries from CNA as to whether the taxi companies need to seek approval before setting higher surcharges at certain locations, the Land Transport Authority and the Public Transport Council said they do not intervene in the setting of taxi and ride-hail fares.

“Operators are required to state and publish all fares clearly, including any additional charges. To ensure fare transparency, licensed operators must also provide commuters with sufficient notice by announcing any changes in schemes and fees at least seven days before implementation,” said the agencies.

Both said they will continue to monitor the industry to ensure that the licensed operators abide by these regulatory obligations.