Title: Klepto Steals $23,000 From His Seatmates On Flight To Singapore
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/theft-onboard-singapore-flight/
--------------------------------------------------

A man faces up to three years in prison for purportedly helping himself to nearly $23,000 from three different passenger carry-on bags onboard a flight to Singapore.

Man Accused Of Stealing $23,000 From Three Passengers On Singapore-Bound Flight

Zhang Xiuqiang, 52, a Chinese national, had quite a “productive” flight on Scoot Airlines flight TR305 from Ho Chi Minh City (SGN) to Singapore (SIN) on December 16, 2023. During that two hour flight, he is accused of stealing:

$20,948 from a black backpack (over 500,000,000 Vietnamese Dong)

$1,500 from an envelope in a gray bag

$500 from another backpack

Xiuqiang must not have been the sharpest knife in the drawer because getting away with stealing on a long and dark overnight flight is one thing, but stealing from multiple passengers in broad daylight (the flight departed at 9:30 am) is really a head-scratcher.

My guess is that someone noticed him take something and may have even confronted him, because authorities were alerted and met the aircraft when it landed at Singapore Changi Airport. There, Xiuqiang was escorted off the aircraft and directly into custody.

He has been charged with three counts of theft.

A Scott spokesperson explained:

“Our cabin crew was alerted by a passenger to a suspected theft in the cabin and activated the Airport Police Division. The involved passengers were escorted off the aircraft by airport authorities for further investigation, and disembarkation proceeded as usual for the rest of our passengers.”

The spokesperson added, ‘”We also advise our customers to safeguard their valuables at all times.”

No kidding. I’m not about to ever travel with $20,000 in cash, let alone $1,500, but if I did I would place it in my personal items and keep it under the seat in front of me…

CONCLUSION

A man faces jail time in Singapore for his allegedly stealing over $23,000 from a trio of passengers onboard a morning flight to Singapore.

I find it odd that this this theft was made in broad daylight and do seriously what was going through Xiuqiang’s mind (hence the kleptomaniac suggestion).

While I would avoid carrying valuables altogether on flights, if you must carry money, keep it close and out of reach of sticky hands.