Title: Video: Son Ye Jin leaves for New York
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/web-series/news/korean/son-ye-jin-stuns-in-an-all-denim-look-as-heads-to-new-york-for-an-event-watch-video/articleshow/105382028.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Son Ye Jin looked stylish in an all-denim outfit as she headed to New York for an international event. The Crash Landing on You actress posed for the cameras and greeted fans at the Incheon International Airport.

Image Courtesy: X

Son Ye Jin charmed fans with her latest outing at the Incheon International Airport. The Crash Landing on You actress was reportedly heading to New York on Tuesday morning, for an international event. For her travel outing, Son Ye Jin opted for an all-denim look.

Videos being shared on X (formerly Twitter) capture Son Ye Jin in pleated denim maxi dress by Valentino and a denim jacket. She completed her OOTD with black boots and black sling bag. The actress charmingly posed for the cameras and greeted fans, dishing out finger hearts to all. Fans on X showered love on Son Ye Jin.

On March 31, 2022, Son Ye Jin tied the knot with her ‘Crash Landing on You’ co-star Hyun Bin. The couple had a private wedding and pictures from their ceremony were extensively shared on social media. In November 2022, the couple welcomed their first child together.

Recently the actress made an appearance on an episode of the golf YouTube channel Lim Jin Han Class and opened up about parenting and how she has dedicated herself to her marriage and family. "Of course, there are some difficulties, but the happiness a child gives is a happiness I've never felt in my life. After working for 20 years, I'm now more focused on my family, and I'm so happy now. I want to do better, take care of my child, and be a good wife and mother, so I use a lot of energy. Still, I'm so happy," Son Ye-jin had said. When asked if she is planning a second baby with Hyun Bin, she had quipped, “We need to think about that."