Title: How to redeem American Express Membership Rewards points for maximum value
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/loyalty-programs/redeeming-american-express-membership-rewards-maximum-value/
--------------------------------------------------

Loyalty programs can be complex, and it can be difficult to uncover the best ways to maximize your credit card rewards.

The American Express Membership Rewards program offers numerous redemption options through Amex's transfer partners, which can be the best way to use them.

We'll explore the strategies you should consider to maximize your hard-earned Amex Membership Rewards points.

American Express Platinum Card®: Find out your offer and see if you are eligible for as high as 175,000 Membership Rewards points after spending $12,000 on purchases in the first six months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

How can I redeem American Express Membership Rewards points?

If you want to maximize your Amex points, transferring them to partner hotel or airline loyalty programs will often yield the highest value.

TPG values Membership Rewards points at 2.0 cents each in our June 2026 valuations, so try to get that value from each Amex point you redeem.

When you transfer Amex points to a hotel or airline program, you can redeem them for hotel nights (some hotels have resort fees) and award flights that might otherwise cost hundreds or thousands of dollars. Moreover, you may be able to stretch the value of your points even further by taking advantage of periodic transfer bonuses.

However, since transfers are irreversible, always compare the cash fare versus the award price. If you're struggling to calculate whether these redemptions are a good value, try using TPG's award calculator.

What are the most valuable ways to redeem American Express Membership Rewards points?

Though award prices can vary, here are some of our favorite high-value transfer partner redemptions.

Book a round-trip flight to Spain with Iberia Club

One of the best ways to redeem American Express Membership Rewards points is by booking Iberia business class on off-peak dates through Iberia Club to Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport (MAD). The program offers low award prices, a 1:1 transfer rate with Amex points and minimal fuel surcharges.

With round-trip cash fares costing several thousand dollars, this is a great way to get at least 2 cents in value from each Membership Rewards point.

You'll find the cheapest flights from cities on the East Coast starting at just 40,500 Iberia Club Avios in business class on off-peak dates, but other cities and classes have attractive pricing, too. Here's a look at Iberia's award chart.

Related: A review of Iberia's new business-class suite on the A350-900 from Madrid to Mexico City

Fly the world's longest flights in comfort

Singapore Airlines operates two of the world's longest flights: from Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) and JFK to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN).

You can redeem your Membership Rewards points by transferring them at a 1:1 ratio to Singapore Airlines' KrisFlyer program to fly the airline's highly regarded business class on these ultralong flights, which last almost 19 hours.

A saver award fare on this route will cost you 117,000 Singapore KrisFlyer miles plus taxes and fees one-way, a smart investment in comfort on such a long flight.

Transfer points to Flying Blue to book flights to Europe

Flying Blue is Air France and KLM's joint loyalty program. The program prices award tickets dynamically and often offers great deals on flights from North America to Europe. Economy saver flights start at 25,000 Flying Blue miles one-way, premium economy flights at 40,000 miles one-way and business-class flights at 60,000 miles one-way.

Remember that fuel surcharges on these awards can be a little hard to handle — close to $900 per person if you book round-trip business-class flights, depending on the route. Still, you should be able to save thousands on business-class cash fares by transferring your Amex Membership Rewards points to Flying Blue at a 1:1 ratio and obtaining at least 2 cents per point in value.

If you can find saver rates, this is one of the cheapest business-class options in Europe, and both airlines have robust route networks. There are also occasional bonuses for transferring points from American Express to Flying Blue, so pricing on some routes becomes even more attractive.

Flying Blue's monthly Promo Rewards are worth checking out. They can offer up to 25% discounts on the prices above.

Fly Qatar Airways' award-winning business class

Qatar Airways is well known for its innovative Qsuite business-class product, which allows groups of up to four passengers to turn their center seats into a private "quad" space.

Qatar Airways' Privilege Club loyalty program is a 1:1 transfer partner of the American Express Membership Rewards program, and, even better, booking business class with transferred Amex points is a great value.

If you can find saver-level business-class seats, you can fly from anywhere in North America to Qatar Airways' hub at Doha's Hamad International Airport (DOH) for only 70,000 Qatar Airways Privilege Club Avios on off-peak dates.

This includes ultra-long-haul flights from LAX and SFO, which can be 15 hours long. There is plenty of time to enjoy this luxurious product and celebrate the excellent value you've obtained from your Membership Rewards points.

Take advantage of the 35% Pay with Points bonus for Business Platinum Card holders

The Business Platinum Card® from American Express has another potentially valuable benefit: You can receive a 35% points bonus on flights booked through Amex Travel (up to 1 million points back per calendar year) for the airline that you select for your airline fee credit (enrollment is required; terms apply), regardless of fare class.

Qualifying airlines include:

Alaska Airlines

American Airlines

Delta Air Lines

Hawaiian Airlines

JetBlue

Southwest Airlines

United Airlines

Best cards to earn American Express Membership Rewards points

Earning Membership Rewards points is easy, thanks to the wide range of American Express cards available. These four popular options stand out among the various American Express cards offering generous welcome offers:

American Express Platinum Card: Find out your offer and see if you are eligible for as high as 175,000 Membership Rewards points after spending $12,000 on purchases in the first six months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

American Express® Gold Card: Find out your offer and see if you are eligible for as high as 100,000 Membership Rewards points after spending $8,000 on purchases in the first six months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

The Business Platinum Card from American Express: Find out your offer and see if you're eligible for as high as 300,000 bonus points after spending $20,000 on purchases in the first three months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

American Express® Business Gold Card: Find out your offer and see if you're eligible for as high as 200,000 bonus points after spending $15,000 on purchases in the first three months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

Bottom line

Like other transferable points programs, the American Express Membership Rewards program offers great sweet spots to those who redeem their points through transfer partners. To help with your award availability search, we recommend using a platform like Seats.aero or another travel redemption app.

With strong welcome bonuses, American Express cards can help you book a dream-worthy vacation using Membership Rewards points.