Title: Media Insider: Why Jenny-May Clarkson’s Breakfast time is over; Laura Tupou leaving Three News; TVNZ in spotlight over Trump speech report; Unauthorised Dame Jacinda Ardern book sales
Source: New Zealand Herald
URL: https://www.nzherald.co.nz/business/media-insider/media-insider-why-jenny-may-clarksons-breakfast-time-is-over-tvnz-in-spotlight-over-trump-speech-report-unauthorised-dame-jacinda-ardern-book-sales/premium/KWVH2GEJUZCLTH6GQIR5MV3CHM/
--------------------------------------------------

Amongst praise for Clarkson’s empathy and audience connection, TVNZ said in its press release that it would be “refreshing” Breakfast. A search would commence for a new host.

And from Clarkson herself: “This was always a privilege, never a right.”

Clarkson did not return calls or a message yesterday - cryptically, she posted a “coming soon” message on her Instagram page three days ago, with a video of her talking to a person off camera. On her social media channel, she has been receiving hordes of good wishes from supporters and followers.

On the show this morning co-host Chris Chang paid tribute to Clarkson as an “amazing partner in crime”.

“I just have the utmost respect for you, as a person above anything else, because while there are great broadcasters here and we work with some of them, none of that really matters at the end of the day. It’s about family and doing what’s best for the family - I just think you’re an awesome person... it’s been a real pleasure.”

Clarkson, a former Silver Fern netballer who started with TVNZ 20 years ago as a netball commentator, told viewers it had been “an absolute honour and a privilege to be invited into your homes every single morning”.

Clarkson’s departure is another high-profile sign of the winds of change blowing through TVNZ.

But whereas 6pm newsreader Simon Dallow’s departure - officially announced last week - had been well-signposted all year, and was led by the 61-year-old himself, the Breakfast changes appear to have been led from the top of the company, before agreement was reached with Clarkson.

Clarkson has also been indicating in some forums that, after six years of 3am alarms, time on the show might be coming to an end.

In chief executive Jodi O’Donnell, TVNZ has a leader who has overseen a turbulent period of cost-cutting since early last year and is now a year into leading a five-year digital and audience-first growth strategy. She has already turned the broadcaster back to profit, including providing a dividend to its Government shareholder for the first time in three years.

O’Donnell was appointed under chair Alastair Carruthers, who has just left the business himself - new chair Andrew Barclay started in the role just 11 days ago.

The Breakfast announcement came exactly one month after TVNZ’s new news and content boss Nadia Tolich started in her role; it’s come five months after Paul Henry started as a TVNZ board member.

Even though board members are not directly involved in this kind of decision-making, they have helped install leaders to drive change.

“The newsroom is editorially independent from TVNZ’s board,” the TVNZ spokeswoman said. “Programming changes are the responsibility of our news and content leadership team, and plans for Breakfast in 2026 will be announced closer to the time.“

Tolich, before becoming one of the country’s most influential media leaders, was a producer in radio and breakfast TV here and in Australia - including stints as a producer for Henry at Radio Live and Network 10.

Henry, one of 31 former Breakfast hosts – arguably, the most popular in the show’s history – has previously held strong views on its content and presentation.

“What is it? It doesn’t have a heart,” Henry said of Breakfast in 2023, at a time when the show had four hosts. He was not a TVNZ board member at that stage.

“You can put too many people in a room and just because you put them in a room with cameras doesn’t make them stars.”

Henry famously said the TVNZ Breakfast studio set looks like Changi Airport or the Hanging Gardens of Babylon. It was certainly not the vibe or design he thought was right for a host-to-viewer connection first thing in the morning.

“There isn’t that bond and if there isn’t chemistry between them [the hosts], then there won’t be chemistry between them and the one viewer that you have always got to be talking with.

“I always used to get great joy, when I was doing it, in the little calls to action. I would quite often say, ‘Oh, can we see that again’, ostensibly to the director.

“But what I was really doing was a call to action to the people in their houses who weren’t watching me, but they had me on [listening].

“All of a sudden if Paul Henry on TV has said, can we see that again? ‘Oh, s***, we need to look at this’.”

The front-runners

Several top names will be in the running for the Breakfast couch - and to become the 32nd presenter on the show as it heads into its 29th year.

Some might also be contenders for the other big vacant role in New Zealand broadcasting right now - RNZ’s Morning Report co-host role.

Two of the biggest names likely to be under consideration are ex-Newshub staff Tova O’Brien and Lloyd Burr, both now in roles at Stuff as senior journalists and making regular appearances on Three News – TV3’s 6pm news that is now produced by Stuff.

Tolich, having played a pivotal role in helping establish Three News for Stuff before she joined TVNZ, will know both O’Brien and Burr well.

The pair also have a strong pedigree in political reporting – making them ideal candidates for a more pointed Breakfast show, with a strong political interviewer as a host, in an election year.

Both also have unfinished business with morning audiences – O’Brien was the breakfast host for the short-lived Today FM in 2023 and Burr was host of the AM show on TV3 for just a few short months before it closed, along with the rest of Newshub, in July 2024.

Burr’s former AM co-host Melissa Chan-Green would be another strong option for Breakfast.

Another two TVNZ outsiders with strong future career prospects are Lisette Reymer and Imogen Wells (now Imogen Gibbs), both also at Stuff.

Sources indicate TVNZ want a fresh face for Breakfast - from outside of the company - but that should not stop them considering Jenny Suo, Wendy Petrie or Daniel Faitaua.

Newstalk ZB hosts such as Heather Du Plessis-Allan and Ryan Bridge - who also hosts the Herald Now breakfast show - are understood to be locked into contracts for several years, but would otherwise be prime contenders.

Of all the candidates, Bridge is possibly the one that TVNZ would want most, given his breakfast experience - just how watertight is that contract?

Laura Tupou leaves Three News for TVNZ

TVNZ has poached Three News weather and news presenter and Stuff journalist Laura Tupou.

Tupou, who is also a former host of The Project, confirmed to Media Insider last night that she would start at TVNZ in mid-January in the role of team leader - reporters, based in Auckland.

“While it’s primarily reporting - so yes, I’ll still be on the tele as well as TVNZ+/online - it also gives me the chance to dip my toes into leadership. I’m excited to complement my presenting and reporting with some management responsibilities,” she said.

“Naturally, there are a few familiar faces at TVNZ who’ve already reached out with lovely messages. I feel very lucky to have received such a warm welcome before I’ve even begun.”

Tupou had the distinction of reading the very first Three News bulletin in July 2024, the day after Newshub closed.

“Needless to say, the farewell party was short and sweet for me! But from day one, we’ve been steered by one of the best in the business, Claire Watson, whose collaboration with Stuff helped bring this bold vision to life.”

She said the team at Three News and Stuff was made up of “tireless, big-hearted newshounds” and saying goodbye was “bittersweet”.

“The beauty of this industry is that no one’s ever truly far away - just a media standup, or a breaking news event away.”

TVNZ defends Trump report

TVNZ is defending its handling of an excerpt of the same Donald Trump speech that is at the heart of an editing scandal that has cost the BBC director-general and news chief executive their roles.

New Zealand’s state broadcaster stands accused by a right-wing commentator of making the same “journalistic sin” as the BBC – an assertion that TVNZ rejects.

As the fallout from the BBC editing scandal has deepened this week, several New Zealand news bosses say they are using the case as an example to highlight to their newsrooms the critical importance of ensuring accurate and balanced journalism.

The BBC spliced together two parts of Trump’s January 6, 2021, speech so that it formed the sentence: “We’re going to walk down to the Capitol and I’ll be there with you, and we fight. We fight like hell. And if you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore.”

Trump actually said: “We are going to walk down to the Capitol and cheer on our brave senators and Congressmen and Congresswomen ... ”

A few minutes later, he said he wanted his supporters to “peacefully and patriotically” make their voices heard – a reference that some observers note was excluded from the BBC Panorama documentary Trump: A Second Chance?

Fifty-four minutes later, Trump stated, in reference to the US having its greatest days ahead of it, and on election security and alleged corruption: “ ... I’ll be there with you, and we fight. We fight like hell. And if you don’t fight like hell, you’re not going to have a country anymore.”

BBC chair Samir Shah has apologised for the editing of the speech. He called it an “error of judgment”, conceding it “did give the impression of a direct call for violent action”.

Trump has demanded a retraction, an apology and compensation from the BBC. Otherwise, his lawyer has told the BBC, he will sue the corporation for $US1 billion ($1.7b) in a Florida court.

AP reported on Friday that the BBC had apologised to Trump but said it strongly disagreed that there was a basis for a defamation lawsuit.

‘Journalistic sin’

TVNZ has this week come under scrutiny from conservative commentator Bob McCoskrie – the director of Family First – for the way it referred to the same Trump speech in a 1News at Six report in July 2022.

The news report – narrated by a TVNZ reporter – was focused on a US select committee hearing investigating Trump’s actions on the day of the Capitol protests, and opened with an excerpt from his speech.

TVNZ reporter: “A desperate bid to hold on to power ... ”

Trump: “We are going to walk down to the Capitol...”

The speech excerpt stopped there, with the rest of Trump’s sentence – “and cheer on our brave senators and Congressmen and Congresswomen” – excluded.

TVNZ staffer: “This call sparking the deadly insurrection at the heart of America’s democracy ... ”

The TVNZ story then focused on the select committee’s investigation into Trump’s actions as the mob stormed the Capitol and, in particular, his spending more than three hours in the White House watching television coverage.

McCoskrie said on social media that the editing of the Trump speech showed 1News “didn’t need the Panorama doco to commit the same journalistic sin".

TVNZ responds

In an emailed response to questions, TVNZ executive editor Phil O’Sullivan told Media Insider that the company had reviewed the clip and was comfortable that it had been edited and framed accurately.

“It is ironic that Bob McCoskrie edited a 15-second clip out of a two-and-a-half-minute news story to raise an issue about editing.

“We agree with Bob that accurately reflecting a speech is important, and we believe the story that we broadcast did this.

“The BBC edited together two clips from Trump’s speech that were spoken an hour apart, which altered the meaning and chronology, making it sound like Trump explicitly called for violent action.

“The clip from Trump’s speech that we aired was shortened but accurately framed. It [is] the same video segment used in the committee hearing this report was about.

“In the same 1News piece, we also included a clip from Trump telling the protesters to ‘go home, go home in peace’."

O’Sullivan said it was not always feasible to show a speech in full, “either in video or in print”.

“It’s important that editing retains the meaning of the original speech and does not misrepresent what was delivered. This is not what happened in BBC’s Panorama programme.

“Robust editorial policies and the right checks and balances are required to avoid this outcome and 1News has these in place."

McCoskrie also uncovered a Newshub report from the day of the Capitol storming, on January 6, 2021.

Newshub’s 6pm bulletin opens with a spliced edit of the Trump speech: “We are going to walk down to the Capitol because you’ll never take back our country with weakness. You have to show strength and you have to be strong.”

Newshub, part of Three, was closed by Warner Bros Discovery in July 2024. Three’s 6pm bulletin is now called Three News and is produced by Stuff. Sky TV acquired Three from Warner Bros Discovery earlier this year.

Video editing

The Associated Press reported this week that with the rise of video across the media landscape, video editing is now a critical skillset in most major newsrooms.

“In an era where every editing decision taken in a newsroom is now under a microscope and can be weaponised for political purposes, it’s got to be something that is causing real caution in newsrooms all over the world now,” former NBC news executive Mark Lukasiewicz, who is dean of Hofstra University’s School of Communication in Hempstead, New York state, said.

The Associated Press’ David Bauder wrote: “Much like print reporters who search through notebooks for the perfect quote, video editors often labour to identify footage that will advance a story.

“Sometimes the perfect image does not exist, or a quote isn’t as succinct or sharp as a medium under constant time constraints demands. That can lead to the temptation to rearrange or even manipulate.”

Bauder reported that “the proliferation of video – ever shorter, ever snappier – on TikTok and Instagram adds to pressure placed on journalists. The ability of AI to manufacture completely false video is yet another complication."

“I don’t think the practices and standards are worse today than they were a few years ago,” Lukasiewicz told Bauder. “I think the consequences of mistakes are more serious than perhaps they used to be,” he said, noting the willingness of politicians to seize on them.

In New Zealand, the Act Party and leader David Seymour have now made a feature of their interactions with media, launching the David vs the Media YouTube series, in which they screen full raw footage of stand-up press conferences and one-on-one interviews, such as this one earlier this year between Seymour and TVNZ’s John Campbell.

During that interview, Campbell pondered whether Seymour’s actions – including the way he introduced himself to Campbell while his camera was filming – were a form of weaponisation against the media.

Later, the pair return to the topic. Seymour tells Campbell that Act has a “duty to be open to people”.

“What we found is that for years, people in the media abused the power to edit. I would build relationships with people, I’d talk to people, I’d give the best quotes I could, describing what we stood for, for our voters.

“And then I found at 6 o’clock, the media had abused the power to edit.”

Campbell explains the “tough business” of editing down what might be three or four seven-minute interviews with politicians into a two-minute story.

Seymour: “I don’t deny that you’ve got a format where you’ve got to crunch down. The question is, if you’re good at that, you accurately convey what the person’s trying to say.”

BBC case: Lessons for NZ media

The way that the Panorama video was spliced together was a serious, unacceptable and egregious lack of judgment, and those directly responsible, the video editor and their superior, should have been sacked immediately.

But the case is now spiralling out of control, with critics claiming an inherent bias at the BBC.

In more recent days, supporters have emerged, urging the BBC to fight back against what they see as Trump’s opportunistic attempts.

“Memo to BBC board: do not fold like ABC and CBS and Wall Street law firms when faced with Trump bully boy shakedown tactics,” former Financial Times editor Lionel Barber wrote.

“He does not ... have a case, even in Florida. The Panorama splicing was a dumb mistake and the exec(s) responsible should have long ago been fired. There are serious issues in the BBC newsroom for the next DG to deal with but Tim Davie and the BBC board could make standing up to Trump and his $1b lawsuit their finest hour.”

Regardless of the outcome of the BBC case, it raises matters of serious importance for New Zealand newsrooms and should have every senior editor checking to ensure their own house is in order.

TVNZ

TVNZ said news bosses had spoken to staff this week about the BBC case.

“These are conversations we have regularly as part of our ongoing newsroom training,” said O’Sullivan.

“The BBC’s error has provided a timely reminder, and it’s of high interest to all our editorial staff.”

RNZ

RNZ said there had been general discussions in the wake of the BBC saga.

“RNZ is acutely aware as a public media organisation of the need to ensure our work is always underpinned by fairness, accuracy, independence, respect, decency and diversity,” RNZ editorial quality and training director Jane Patterson said.

“Our editorial policy guides this, and training and support for our people is a day-to-day part of what we do.

“RNZ has also committed to undertaking regular assessments on aspects of its output against its editorial policy. These reviews are made publicly available. The next review, on the range and diversity of sources used by RNZ, will be published before the end of the year.”

NZME

NZME editor-in-chief Murray Kirkness said: “The developments relating to editorial standards at the BBC are a timely reminder of the responsibilities all news organisations carry.

“As such, I have shared material and discussed matters relating to the BBC’s issues with members of our newsroom leadership team.

“NZME’s editorial code of conduct and ethics demonstrates our commitment to ensuring our journalism is fair, accurate and balanced and that we conduct ourselves and present our work honestly, with integrity, objectivity and to the highest standards.

“We share diverse perspectives, maintaining editorial independence and upholding accuracy and fairness at all times – all of which are vital to being a trusted news provider.”

Stuff

Stuff Digital editor in chief Keith Lynch said: “When credible global media outlets like the BBC make an editorial error, such as the recent Trump editing issue, our editorial leaders will always pause to reflect on what has occurred and lessons that can be learned.

“Stuff holds itself to a rigorous and clearly defined editorial code of conduct and journalistic standards, which are reinforced through regular training sessions and newsroom discussions.”

McSkimming case highlights best of NZ journalism

A huge shoutout this week to the journalists who have been almost as busy with lawyers as they have been on their keyboards and knocking on doors in order to report wider angles on the Jevon McSkimming story.

The Herald’s Jared Savage has led the charge, seeking – with the legal backing of NZME lawyer Bella Ieremia – to oppose suppression orders involving the woman who was originally charged, under the Harmful Digital Communications Act (HDCA), for her alleged communications with McSkimming.

McSkimming had been involved in a sexual relationship with the woman, a non-sworn police staff member.

The charges against the woman were later dropped by police, although – as Savage revealed yesterday – she is still facing other charges over alleged communications with a police officer who was investigating the original matter.

NZME – through Ieremia – has been seeking details of suppression orders since December 2024.

Once the HDCA charge was dropped, NZME used Robert Stewart, KC to oppose the suppression orders – a cause that was also backed by the Crown and the Independent Police Conduct Authority (IPCA).

At a hearing on Tuesday, NZME – through Stewart – was successful in having some suppressions lifted, allowing the NZ Herald to break the story.

The court decision also cleared the way for the IPCA to release its report.

RNZ’s Sam Sherwood – formerly of Stuff and the NZ Herald – has also been a standout investigative reporter on the case. He had made his own submission on suppression.

Those two have also been backed up by their own newsrooms and reporting from across the media landscape, from the likes of Stuff’s Paula Penfold, Three News and TVNZ, which did an admirable job in its live coverage – and staying with the police press conference – on Tuesday evening.

Unauthorised Ardern book sales

An unauthorised biography on Dame Jacinda Ardern is selling well, according to its publisher, with an initial print run of 4000 copies almost fully distributed* to book stores, and a second print run about to follow.

(*Apologies to Media Insider readers - I was ahead of myself when I first reported this morning that the initial 4000 copies had almost sold out).

The book, by author, writer and journalist David Cohen, went on sale late last week.

“The first print run of 4000 books is almost totally cleared out of our distribution hubs in Auckland and Christchurch,” said Tameem Barakat, the owner and managing editor of the Centrist media platform, which has published the book.

“We have watched bookstores all over the country sell out and reorder new stock over the past week. Some stores have placed multiple repeat orders.

“Stock from a second print run is already in our warehouses and will likely start appearing in stores next week.”

Most of the independent bookshops approached by Media Insider this week said they were or would be stocking the book, although some said they had not received a heads-up about it.

Lamplight Books in Parnell said: “Honestly, your query was the first we’d heard of the book, so no, we aren’t selling it. Our curation focus is on art, design and literature, so it’s unlikely we’ll stock the book.”

Unity Wellington manager Susanna Andrew said: “As it happens, we have just been shown the book today by the rep who is visiting and yes, we are ordering it. It’s a shame the earlier publicity didn’t coincide with the book being in stock, this is a bugbear of bookstores. We have already taken a few special orders for it and I am sure there will be more. We’re interested in all books that generate discussion about politics.”

Unity Auckland’s Carolyn Alexander said: “We were unaware of this publication until we saw an article in the Listener about it. We tracked it down and ordered it the same day, and are expecting stock tomorrow hopefully."

Jenna Todd of TimeOut books in Mt Eden said earlier in the week: “We have it on order, but we haven’t had any pre-orders or queries from customers yet.”

Carole Beu of the Women’s Bookstore in Ponsonby said: “I didn’t even know about it until I read the review in the Listener. So we are not selling it at the moment because we have no stock!

“The staff and I are considering whether we should order some copies, but we have not been inundated with requests for it. We have sold nearly 300 copies of Jacinda’s memoir A Different Kind of Power, and it continues to quietly sell."

Barakat said: “The distribution agency began selling into stores in early October, and it’s a five-week cycle for their reps, so there will be some stores, mostly independents, who have been taken by surprise as buyers walked in off the street asking about it.

“The good news is that it’s a New Zealand book, about a New Zealand political figure, printed in New Zealand factories and supporting New Zealand jobs, and it’s selling strongly.”

Are Media rejoins MPA

New Zealand’s biggest magazine publisher, Are Media, has rejoined the Magazine Publishers Association, with its general manager, Stuart Dick, appointed the association’s new chair.

Dick replaces Nick Burrowes as chair - Burrowes, who has been praised by the MPA for his work in the role, will continue as a board member.

“I’m honoured to take on the role of chair at such a pivotal moment for our industry,” said Dick, whose company publishes titles such as The Listener, NZ Woman’s Weekly, Woman’s Day, the Australian Women’s Weekly, Your Home and Garden and Kia Ora.

“With over 2.5 million magazine readers in New Zealand, magazines continue to be a trusted and influential medium in New Zealand, and I’m excited to work with our members to champion their success—whether in print, online, or through emerging formats," said Dick.

“Together, we’ll build on the strong foundations formed by Nick and the board to ensure magazine media remains vibrant, relevant, and commercially strong.”

There have been questions about the future of the MPA, but this now seems assured with Are Media back in the fray.

“Yes we’ve rejoined, the time feels right to use our collective energy and resources to capitalise on some of the good news stories out there – readership growth, digital expansion, advertising success (SMI data showing magazines at 47% growth YTD)," said Dick.

The MPA would also be discussing whether to resurrect its annual awards.