Title: Scoot Passenger Steals $23,000 in Cash While in Flight
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/scoot-passenger-steals-23000-in-cash-while-in-flight/
--------------------------------------------------

1.3K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Passengers found themselves missing money onboard Singapore Airlines’ low-cost subsidiary, Scoot flight TR305 from Ho Chi Minh City’s Tan Son Nhat International Airport (SGN) to Singapore Changi International Airport (SIN). A fellow passenger allegedly stole around $23,000 in cash from three other flyers.

Zhang Xiuqiang, 52, of China is accused of stealing varying amounts of cash in both Vietnamese dong and Singapore dollars. One passenger had almost $21,000 taken from them (why they were carrying such a high amount of cash is unknown). One passenger noticed the other passenger’s suspicious behavior and alerted the flight crew. They contacted law enforcement, had them meet the plane, and escort the suspect away from the other passengers.

A spokesperson for Scoot told CNN:

Our cabin crew was alerted by a passenger to a suspected theft in the cabin and activated the Airport Police Division. The involved passengers were escorted off the aircraft by airport authorities for further investigation, and disembarkation proceeded as usual for the rest of our passengers.”

Zhang now faces up to three years in prison as well as a potential fine if convicted. In-flight theft is more common than many people think. Hong Kong police have warned the public of a spike in thefts on inbound airplanes. It was discovered that a crime syndicate stole credit cards from passengers.

Anthony’s Take: The flight crew handled this well and did not create a scene in flight. I’m still wondering why anyone would be carrying around $21,000 and if that became an issue for that passenger in transporting that much cash.

(Featured Image Credit: Scoot/Airbus.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.