Title: Hyundai’s EV plant raided by ICE, ‘hundreds’ taken into custody [Live Updates]
Source: Electrek
URL: http://electrek.co/2025/09/10/hyundais-ev-plant-raided-by-ice-hundreds-arrested-live-updates/
--------------------------------------------------

The massive new Hyundai EV plant outside of Savannah, Georgia, was raided by ICE last week. Federal agents took hundreds of people into custody at the site, including executives from LG Energy Solution, Hyundai’s battery partner and co-owner of the plant.

Update 09/10/2025: A charter plane was shown taking off from the Incheon International Airport in South Korea on Wednesday, headed for the US.

According to reports (via The Associated Press), the plane landed in Atlanta, but cannot depart the US just yet due to unknown reasons on the US side.

The detainees are currently being held at an immigration detention center in Georgia. They are expected to be released and transferred to the Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, where the charter plane is waiting to bring them home.

Advertisement - scroll for more content

The battery plant site that was raided is one of over 20 that South Korean companies are currently building in the US.

As the largest workplace raid by the US Homeland Security, the event is quickly spreading backlash among South Koreans.

Charles Kuck, an immigration attorney from Atlanta who represents several of the detained citizens, told The Associated Press that no other company in the US makes the machines used at Hyundai’s plant. So, they had to come from overseas to install or repair equipment at the plant. He added that many were doing so under various visa programs legally.

Why was the Hyundai EV plant raided by ICE?

After celebrating the grand opening of its new Hyundai Motor Group Metaplant America (HMGMA) in Georgia earlier this year, the Korean automaker said it’s “building the future of mobility with America, in America.”

On September 4, a construction site for a new battery plant was raided by US immigration authorities. Up to 475 people were arrested as part of an investigation into undocumented individuals. It was the US Department of Homeland Security’s largest single-site enforcement operation to date.

The South Korean Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Friday, September 5 (via Yonhap News), claiming that the individuals were mistreated.

“The economic activities of our companies investing in the US and the rights and interests of our nationals must not be unfairly violated,” South Korean ministry spokesperson Lee Jae-woong said.

The ministry’s spokesperson added that “We conveyed our concern and regret through the US Embassy in Seoul today.” Korea sent officials to Washington and to the Hyundai plant to establish an on-site task force to deal with the matter.

Update 09/08/25: South Korea reached a “broad agreement” on September 7 to release the roughly 300 Korean citizens detained in the US.

A foreign ministry official confirmed on Monday (via Yonhap News) that “We have agreed on a plan to bring all our citizens back home safely via a chartered flight.” The official added that the citizens will head home voluntarily rather than facing deportation.

Backlash is erupting in Korea after video footage circulated on social media showing the detained workers shackled before being loaded onto buses and DEA agents armed with guns outside the facility.

South Korean Foreign Minister Cho Hyun is in talks with Washington to discuss ways to prevent similar incidents from happening again, including increasing the visa quota for South Korean workers.

Meanwhile, President Donald Trump still believes the US and South Korea have “a great relationship.” Trump told reporters after a visit to the US Open tennis final on September 8 that “we have a great relationship with South Korea, really good relationship.”

Trump later posted on Truth Social that the US will “make it quickly and legally possible” to bring foreign battery experts to the US, adding, “What we ask in return is that you hire and train American Workers.”

Hyundai’s site in Georgia spans nearly 3,000 acres total and includes an assembly facility, two battery plants, a weld shop, and several others for training, logistics, and more.

As the largest economic project in Georgia, the plant, including Hyundai’s suppliers, is expected to create nearly 40,000 jobs while drawing $12.6 billion into the state.

Hyundai currently builds the new 2025 IONIQ 5 and 2026 IONIQ 9, its first three-row electric SUV, at the Georgia facility.

The ICE raid came just days after US President Trump hosted South Korean President Lee Jae Myung at the White House. It’s part of the administration’s aggressive crackdown on immigration. Lee has committed to investing another $150 billion in the US, including a new EV battery plant, as it seeks to ease trade tensions.

Check back soon for the latest information, as this is still an ongoing story. We’ll keep you updated with the latest.