Title: After dealing with dozens of layovers as a frequent flyer, I've found 5 ways to make them actually enjoyable
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/ways-airport-layovers-better-tips-frequent-traveler
--------------------------------------------------

Airport-lounge access is a lifesaver when flying.

Each lounge offers varied amenities, but most provide complimentary food and drinks along with comfortable seating. Some lounges offer additional facilities like private offices, nap rooms, and family play areas.

You don't need to fly business class to access airport lounges, either. Many premium travel rewards credit cards, such as the Chase Sapphire Reserve and Capital One Venture X Rewards, provide lounge access to cardholders.

The downside is that most of these cards come with hefty fees. I access lounges with my American Express Platinum card, but its $895 annual fee is anything but cheap.

Nonetheless, I've made over 40 visits to airport lounges in one year alone, so I definitely get my money's worth.

Staying busy is key to avoiding boredom on long layovers. Before every travel day, I plan how I'll pass the time. I might save a work project for the layover or download a new book to my Kindle.

If a much-anticipated show releases new episodes shortly before my trip, I'll wait to watch them when I'm sitting around the airport.

After all, binge-watching the newest season of "Squid Game" can make even the longest layovers fly by.

If my layover is long enough, I'll leave the airport to explore a new destination and return before my next flight.

However, make sure you manage your time wisely when leaving an airport. Some are far from the city center, and you'll also want to account for the time it'll take to go back through security when you return.

My rule of thumb is I only consider leaving the airport if a layover is longer than seven hours. If it's shorter, I feel the risk of missing my next flight is too high.

In my day-to-day life at home, it can be hard to find the time to call long-distance loved ones while juggling chores, work, and errands.

Long layovers are an opportune time to catch up with friends and family. I love finding a quiet corner of the airport to call a friend in London or check in with older relatives in Ohio.

With few outside distractions, I can be fully alert when we chat, and doing so helps pass the time while waiting for my next flight.

I try to find something interesting to do in every airport I visit.

Some, such as Changi Airport in Singapore, feature unbelievable amenities like a swimming pool and yoga classes.

I was also impressed by the abundance of live music when passing through Nashville's airport and the outdoor patio at Denver's airport that allowed me to access fresh air on a long travel day.

A quick search of each airport's amenities can help you find interesting things to do, whether you're passing through Istanbul or Indianapolis.

This story was originally published on February 8, 2025, and most recently updated on April 22, 2026.