Title: The 12 Best Hotels In Singapore
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-personal-shopper/article/best-hotels-in-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

All products and services featured are independently selected by Forbes Vetted contributors and editors. When you make a purchase through links on this page, we may earn a commission. Learn more

Tamara Hinson, Contributor

Forbes Vetted

Singapore may be one of Asia’s smallest countries (only Macau and the Maldives are smaller in terms of landmass) but it’s also proof that bigger isn’t always better. This country is home to one of the most fabulously diverse hotel scenes in Asia, with the best hotels in Singapore serving up a wide range of unique experiences inside secluded escapes, historic buildings and design-forward skyscrapers right in the middle of it all.

Hotel offerings here no longer simply line neon-drenched Orchard Road or tower over Marina Bay. Whether it’s the Capella Singapore, with its lush gardens and A-list clientele (Taylor Swift stayed here when she performed in Singapore in 2024) or minimalist marvels such as the recently opened Singapore Edition, this is a country where there will never be any shortage of great places to stay. Below, the best hotels in Singapore for 2024.

Best High-End Hotel In Singapore: Capella Singapore

Best Historic Hotel In Singapore: Raffles Singapore

Best Boutique Hotel In Singapore: KēSa House

Best Value Hotel In Singapore: Yotel Singapore

Best Hotel In Singapore For Solo Travelers: Hilton Singapore Orchard

Best Hotel In Singapore For Families: Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay

Best Hotel In Singapore For Couples: Wanderlust By The Unlimited Collection

Best Hotel For Design Lovers In Singapore: Singapore Edition

Best Hotel In Singapore For Foodies: Fairmont Singapore

Best Hotel In Singapore For Nightlife Lovers: JW Marriott Singapore South Beach

Best Hotel In Singapore For Business Travel: Pan Pacific Singapore

Hotel With The Best Views In Singapore: Swissôtel The Stamford

Best High-End Hotel In Singapore: Capella Singapore

Capella Singapore

Who Will Love It: Couples seeking some time out; any traveler looking for a luxe escape away from the hustle and bustle

All-Star Amenities: The Capella Culturists, who research guests’ preferences and tailor their stay

What Not To Miss: The Balot Ng Aruga Healing Experience at the Auriga Spa

Location: Sentosa Island

Sentosa Island isn’t just about theme parks—its other highlights include golden beaches, heritage sights and a growing number of luxury hotels. It’s also home to the most luxurious crash pad in the city, Capella Singapore, a favorite of jet setters and A-listers alike. This seriously swanky hotel is surrounded by 30 acres of peacock-dotted parkland and offers 112 rooms, suites and villas, although those who can’t tear themselves away can stay in one of the property’s supersized one, two or three-bedroom residences.

Drag yourself away from your room and you’ll find endless places to curl up with a book. Our favorite spot is the Living Room, situated in a bungalow dating back to the 1880s that was once used by British army officers. There’s a packed calendar of daily activities here, ranging from craft workshops to cooking classes, as well as excellent on-site dining. Make time for a night at Fiamma, one of Singapore’s top restaurants, helmed by legendary Italian chef Mauro Colagreco.

Best Historic Hotel In Singapore: Raffles Singapore

Raffles Singapore

Who Will Love It: History buffs; luxury lovers

All-Star Amenities: Butler service; complimentary tours with in-house historian Leslie Danker

What Not To Miss: A Singapore Sling in the Long Bar, where it was created

Location: Downtown

It doesn’t get more historic than the Raffles Singapore, a hotel founded in 1887. That’s when four Armenian brothers (known subsequently as the Sarkies) transformed an old Singapore bungalow into a 10-room hotel and named it after Sir Stamford Raffles, Singapore’s founder. One of the best ways to learn about its history is with a complimentary tour led by in-house historian Leslie Danker, who started working at the hotel when he was 18. You’ll hear anecdotes about former guests such as Joseph Conrad, Rudyard Kipling, John Wayne and Somerset Maugham, and about the stories behind artifacts such as the beautiful wooden grandfather clock in the lobby.

Today, the hotel is somewhat larger than it was when it opened—it’s got 115 suites (all of which come with butler service), seven restaurants and bars, one of Singapore’s largest spas and numerous boutiques. But in many ways, little has changed. Even if you’re not staying here, it’s worth stopping by the property’s Long Bar for a Singapore Sling, which was created by a bartender here in 1915.

Best Boutique Hotel In Singapore: KēSa House

KēSa House

Who Will Love It: Independent travelers

All-Star Amenities: The self-service laundry—being able to give your clothes a quick spruce-up is a major boost in hot, sweaty Singapore

What Not To Miss: The KēSa Terrace, a beautifully landscaped rooftop garden with views over the city

Location: Chinatown

KēSa House is a boutique hotel in a row of 10 historic shophouses. But don’t make the mistake of thinking space is at a premium in this teal-hued hotel—a clever approach to design (such as the way even the largest suitcases can be slid under beds) means there’s plenty of room. We also love the presence of both a launderette and a kitchenette; for those flying solo, the kitchenette is one of the hotel’s more sociable spaces and it’s a great place to meet fellow travelers. That being said, this hotel’s fantastic location means there’s no excuse to stay put—the property is right in the heart of Chinatown and just a few feet from some of Singapore’s top hawker centers (including the Maxwell Food Centre, where specialties include Hainanese chicken). You’re also just a five-minute walk from the Chinatown MRT Station and the Outram Park MRT Station.

Best Value Hotel In Singapore: Yotel Singapore

Yotel Singapore

Who Will Love It: Travelers on a budget

All-Star Amenities: The spectacular outdoor swimming pool (complete with an abundance of loungers)

What Not To Miss: Yoshi and Yolanda, the two ridiculously cute room service robots who’ll deliver extras such as spare towels and shampoo to your room

Location: Orchard Road

Rooms at Yotel Singapore start from just $147 per night, and while they’re certainly on the small side, smart storage solutions eliminate any sense of claustrophobia. A fully adjustable SmartBed (which transforms from an upright sofa to a full-sized Queen bed at the touch of a button) cranks up the comfort levels, and Chromecast allows guests to stream favorite shows from their devices. Other amenities include an outdoor pool and a gym which, unlike many hotel fitness centers, stays open around the clock. The hotel has two robots which will deliver items such as spare towels to your room, and the check-in process is equally high-tech—you’ll check in at Mission Control, where you’ll find a bank of self-service touch screens; you can also use these screens to order room service and to check out. The hotel is just a two-minute walk from the Orchard Road MRT station, which makes it a particularly great base for city exploration.

Best Hotel In Singapore For Solo Travelers: Hilton Singapore Orchard

Hilton Singapore Orchard

Who Will Love It: Solo travelers

All-Star Amenities: Nespresso coffee machines in every single one of the 1,080 rooms

What Not To Miss: The beautiful botanical-themed art throughout the hotel

Location: Orchard Road

As much as there’s a time and a place for out-of-the-way hotels, larger city center hotels can be perfect for solo travelers, and this one is a case in point. The Hilton Singapore Orchard is just a short walk from the UNESCO-listed Singapore Botanic Gardens and Emerald Hill, a designated conservation area and a great spot for solo wanders. With 13 room types to choose from, finding your perfect home-from-home is easy. This art-filled hotel is also one of the best places to snap a selfie. Our favorite locations include the Estate restaurant, where the walls are lined with botanical prints, and the outdoor garden at Osteria Mozza. But it’s not just the design which makes this hotel ideal for solo travelers—all of the restaurants have a wide range of seating, and staff have been trained to identify seating areas particularly suitable for solos.

Best Hotel In Singapore For Families: Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay

Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay

Who Will Love It: Families

All-Star Amenities: The gnome-themed family rooms

What Not To Miss: The 82-foot-long pool (and its underwater lighting, more specifically)

Location: Marina Bay

Parkroyal Collection Marina Bay has long been a favorite of families traveling with young children. Guests of all ages can enjoy a dip in the 82-foot-long rooftop pool (head here after sunset to see it illuminated by 1,380 underwater fibre-optic lights) and even the fussiest eaters are well catered for at Peppermint, the property’s buffet-style restaurant. In 2024, the property launched its gnome-themed family rooms—The Gnome’s Burrow and the Gnome’s Treehouse. Highlights of The Gnome’s Burrow include a wooden slide, mushroom murals on the walls and stepping stone-like platforms which lead to the two beds, tucked inside two cosy log-like spaces. Book the Gnome’s Treehouse and your little darlings will sleep beneath leaf-shaped duvets in a bunkbed partially covered by a safari-style tent. Both rooms have an abundance of board games and stuffed animals, along with Nintendo Switches and gnome-themed amenities.

Best Hotel In Singapore For Couples: Wanderlust By The Unlimited Collection

Wanderlust By The Unlimited Collection

Who Will Love It: Couples seeking alone time

All-Star Amenities: The kitchenette, for nights when you feel like eating in

What Not To Miss: The small-but-perfectly-formed dipping pool

Location: Little India

Hidden away on a quiet street in Little India, this beautiful property, tucked into a gorgeous art deco heritage building dating back to the 1920s, is ideal for a romantic retreat. A wonderful sense of calm permeates the hotel, which has just 29 intimate rooms. Try and bag a studio loft if you can—you’ll sleep in a cozy upstairs mezzanine area and will have a small kitchenette on the lower level (perfect for those days when you can’t quite summon the effort to drag yourself—or your partner—out of bed). Perks include discounts at various nearby restaurants, including Paelet, a sexy, sultry nearby bar specializing in cocktails made with rare ingredients such as Chinese celery and pumpkin soy. Less exciting but equally useful are two other perks—the hotel’s kitchenette and laundry.

Best Hotel For Design Lovers In Singapore: Singapore Edition

Singapore Edition

Who Will Love It: Style seekers

All-Star Amenities: The hotel’s swimming pool, which features a glass panel in the floor allowing guests to look down onto the gardens below

What Not To Miss: The spiral staircase in the lobby

Location: Orchard Road

The Singapore Edition was the first Southeast Asian outpost for the brand, and it’s a stunner, with 204 achingly hip rooms and a lobby dominated by the aforementioned Venetian plaster spiral staircase. Stay here and you’ll inevitably have to dodge the odd selfie-snapper, although the abundance of stunning backdrops means the property never feels crowded. The most popular locations include the Punch Room, with its bright blue, sculptural ceiling pendant and bronze bar, and The Roof, where you’ll find the 147-foot-long swimming pool with a transparent oculus which allows swimmers to gaze down onto the gardens below. Partial to some pool? You’ll love the Lobby Bar—the highlight here is a rose-colored pool table carved out of Calcutta marble. Don’t miss a meal at FYSH, helmed by Australian superstar chef Josh Niland (it’s his first restaurant outside of Australia).

Best Hotel In Singapore For Foodies: Fairmont Singapore

Fairmont Singapore

Who Will Love It: Tech-loving foodies

All-Star Amenities: The aquaponics farm, which guests can see on guided tours

What Not To Miss: A session in the spectacular 50,000 square-foot fitness center—the perfect way to offset any over-indulgences.

Location: Marina Bay

Foodies are spoiled for choice at Fairmont Singapore, where restaurants include Prego, for authentic Italian cuisine, Mikuni for Japanese fare and Anti:Dote, where you can wash down enormous steaks with one of the natural wines on offer. We recommend the latter’s degustation menu—we won’t spoil the surprise, but courses include a chili cocoa waffle served with mango coconut nitrogen (sounds weird, but it works) and a smoked flamingo tea Hamachi. The hotel’s sustainability credentials are seriously impressive, too—the property is GSTC certified and at the on-site aquaponics farm, the latest aquaculture and hydroponics technology allows the hotel to produce its own greens and fish. But this hotel isn’t just about the food. Luxurious added extras include Le Labo toiletries and Nespresso coffee machines in every room, not to mention Peranakan detailing inspired by local heritage buildings.

Best Hotel In Singapore For Nightlife Lovers: JW Marriott Singapore South Beach

JW Marriott Singapore South Beach

Who Will Love It: Night owls partial to cocktail cravings

All-Star Amenities: The Fish Pool, where you can sip cocktails while watching a mermaid swoop through the water.

What Not To Miss: A nightcap in the Stags’ Room, famous for its library of vintage wines

Location: Marina Bay

The fun factor is high at this 634-room Marina Bay hotel, which is one of Singapore’s largest. It’s just a few feet from Singapore’s top entertainment venues, meaning those seeking evening entertainment won’t be far from the city’s top spots, but you’d also be forgiven for staying put. At Fish Pool, you can sip craft cocktails while Syrena, which the hotel describes as Singapore’s first mermaid, performs aquatic aerobics in the bar’s open-air pool. And Cool Cats, the hotel’s live music lounge, has tunes on hand every night of the week. There are plenty of options to soothe sore heads after a night on the town, too. The JW Garden, a serene sanctuary where the restaurants’ herbs are grown, is a great place to relax and recalibrate after a late night, as is the Hushed Habitat, a greenery-filled space perfect for peace and quiet.

Best Hotel In Singapore For Business Travel: Pan Pacific Singapore

Pan Pacific Singapore

Who Will Love It: Business travelers who love great food

All-Star Amenities: Studio 26, a 24-hour self-service space which will make your regular workplace look incredibly dull

What Not To Miss: The Public Art Space, a 2,368-square-feet art-filled area which is also used as a venue for rotating exhibitions

Location: Marina Square

It takes just 20 minutes to get from Changi International Airport to this hotel in the heart of Singapore’s Central Business District, but Pan Pacific Singapore offers the feel of an urban haven, thanks not only to the vast swathes of greenery you’ll find throughout but also its beautifully designed art-filled spaces. With 12 room and suite categories on offer, there’s an option to suit every type of traveler, although the Skyline Suite, with its floor-to-ceiling windows, bags the top spot when it comes to perks—stay here and you’ll get complimentary local calls and a complimentary minibar, an in-room water dispenser and a seriously high-tech speaker system in the bathroom (perfect for those post-conference soaks in the tub). After a day of meetings, there are numerous restaurants to choose from, including Hai Tien Lo for modern Cantonese cuisine and Rang Mahal for Indian delicacies (the lychee kulfi is to die for). For some local flavors, book the Local-Inspired Afternoon Tea, which launched in early 2024 and is served in the lobby.

Hotel With The Best Views In Singapore: Swissôtel The Stamford

Swissôtel The Stamford

Who Will Love It: Wellbeing-focused travelers; selfie-snappers seeking the perfect backdrop

All-Star Amenities: The Vitality Rooms, which feature high-tech experience showers and jet lag-busting circadian lighting technology designed to improve wellbeing

What Not To Miss: SKAI, on level 70, which offers some of the best views of the city

Location: Civic District

As the tallest hotel in Singapore, it’s hard to beat the views at Swissôtel, especially from SKAI restaurant on level 70. But the beauty of this property is that it features endless places from which you can soak up beautiful vistas. These include the huge gym (other fitness offerings include tennis courts and running tracks) and the bedrooms, all of which have balconies. And wellness lovers in particular will love the Vitality Rooms, where amenities include high-tech experience showers and a wellness wall with a cable pull and wall bars—mini bars are stocked with nutritious juices and high protein snacks. When you’re not enjoying the views, we recommend a walk to the nearby Asian Civilisations Museum and the National Gallery Singapore. The property is also steps away from Fort Canning Park—yet another great place to enjoy views over Singapore.

About Tamara Hinson, Your Singapore Guide

I am a UK-based freelance travel writer. I have visited Singapore multiple times since falling in love with the city on a family holiday, and I return each year to watch the F1 night race. My favorite Singapore spots include the Rail Corridor, a rewilded cycling route in the footprint of an historic railway once used to shuttle goods from Singapore to Malaysia, and Pulau Ubin, a Singaporean island which is just a 15-minute boat ride from the mainland and features Singapore's last kampong (traditional village) as well as a wildlife-filled wetlands area.