Title: Review: 21 Carpenter, a Marriott Design Hotel (Singapore)
Source: Youngtravelershongkong.com
URL: https://youngtravelershongkong.com/2024/08/21-carpenter-hotel-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

In February 2024 I had the chance to stay at the 21 Carpenter Hotel in Singapore, which is a Marriott Design Hotel. The hotel is located by Clarke Quay, and opened in December 2023, a couple of months before I stayed there. I specifically booked this new hotel to check it out – I was flying in from Kuala Lumpur on Batik Air Malaysia the night prior, and was flying out to Phuket on Singapore Airlines’ 737 MAX 8 the next morning, and would’ve booked a hotel near the airport if I hadn’t specifically wanted to check out this hotel. This did mean that I wasn’t able to check out any food options at the hotel, as I was arriving late and leaving early.

This hotel features 48 rooms, and is a restored Singapore shophouse with a very boutique feel. While service was impeccable and the room was gorgeous, I struggled to find a reason for the hotel to stand out amongst other similarly priced competitors around the area. Additionally, while there were no quality control issues with my stay, I’ve heard reports of signs of an overly rushed opening, including badly finished rooms, non-functional hot water, etc..

Here’s my experience, where I’ll detail my room, some of the hotel’s public spaces (including an infinity pool), and more.

Booking the 21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore

The 21 Carpenter Hotel goes from 414 SGD (HK$2,480/£241) all-in. Singapore is one of Southeast Asia’s most expensive hotel markets (the city has Southeast Asia’s highest cost of living), so this would be comparable with similar-tier hotels around the area.

I booked an Opening Special Offer rate at the 21 Carpenter Hotel, which was 419.66 SGD (HK$2,514/£244) per night including taxes and fees. This came with a room upgrade (to an Urban Luxe room), free breakfast and late check-out/early check-in, though unfortunately I wasn’t able to take advantage of either of these amenities due to my flight times.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Location and Exterior

I booked a Grab ride from Changi Airport to the classily designed 21 Carpenter Hotel in Clarke Quay. Singapore is one of my favourite cities, and this was my first time back in seven years. It was sure nice to be back!

As mentioned earlier, the hotel was restored from a Singaporean shophouse, and that’s reflected in the facade of the hotel.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Exterior

There was a little entryway into the hotel, with the hotel’s logo as well as some seating.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Entryway

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Lobby and Public Spaces

Once turning left from the entryway of the hotel, I found myself in the high-ceilinged, cozy hotel lobby, featuring earthy wood and stone colour tones. Despite the small size, there was lots of comfortable seating here for a drink, if waiting for a cab,

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Lobby

There were a few designer quirks in the hotel lobby as well, such as some fancy light fixtures as well as a couple of bikes with bamboo baskets.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Lobby

I was checked in by a friendly hotel associate, though it took a while for my booking to be loaded up and for me to be checked in.

Once this process was complete, he handed me a fancy wooden round key card. These aren’t the easiest or most practical key cards to keep in a wallet, though they were very cute.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Key Card

The hotel features nine storeys – the bottom four house the hotel’s “Heritage” wing, whereas the top five floors feature the hotel’s “Urban” wing. The Heritage wing rooms are more faithful to the hotel’s shophouse charm, though the Urban rooms are unrestricted by restoration codes and feature more modern fixtures such as floor-to-ceiling windows.

My Urban Luxe room was featured on the 7th floor of the hotel.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Hallway

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Urban Luxe Room

I was assigned an Urban Luxe room, which is one category up from the hotel’s “base” rooms.

Initial impressions were very positive. I loved the room’s design, earthy tones, and wooden finishes. It featured a bed, a sitting area with a table, and a TV, though no proper desk for working. Worry not, although there’s a decorative fan fixture on the ceiling, the room does feature proper air conditioning.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Urban Luxe Room

There were sensibly placed power ports on both sides of the room, though I was hoping for this newer hotel to have USB-C charging.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore USB and Power Port

The room also featured an open wardrobe, with some very nicely designed bathrobes. Even the Dyson hair dryer provided with the room was housed in a linen bag.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Wardrobe and Hair Dryer

By the side of the room was complimentary water, tea and coffee. I would’ve hoped that the room would have a coffee machine, though at least the instant coffee given was on the better side of things in terms of quality.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Coffee and Tea

By this side of the room was the entryway, with even more storage available.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Urban Luxe Room Entryway

Presumably since I’d booked an opening rate, housekeeping was very kind to give me some complimentary Gula Melaka shortbread cookies, which were tasty.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Welcome Card and Shortbread

The room also housed a paid minibar.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Paid Minibar

Clarke Quay is a great area with an awesome food scene, though hotels situated there don’t get a huge amount in the way of views. I could see the Marina Bay Sands in the distance, though otherwise the view was mostly of adjacent buildings.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Urban Luxe Room View

I felt that the room was nicely appointed, quite large in size, and very modern.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Urban Luxe Room Bathroom

The bathroom was similarly design-focused, with retro pink tiles and rounded corners. It featured a bidet toilet, a sink, a walk-in shower, and a mirror that housed a storage area. The shower featured a rainforest showerhead as well, and I found water pressure to be very good.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Urban Luxe Room Bathroom

The bathroom featured Smith and Co toiletries.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Toiletries

I really enjoyed my room, and it was perfect for my one-night stay. However, I’ve heard that the quality control at this hotel is slightly inconsistent, especially during the opening months when I stayed. For example, sealing and soundproofing in the rooms isn’t great, particularly in the Heritage wing, and some of the rooms have also been facing a gnat issue. Hotel management is aware of this, and they have been working to fix some of these issues in the meantime.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Garden Terrace

As I arrived late in the evening and left early in the morning, I couldn’t properly explore the hotel’s public spaces. I had a peek at the Garden Terrace located on the third floor, which seemed like a good place to chat and relax if you wanted some fresh air – do note that Singapore is quite warm and humid year-round, so you might not want to be out here for huge lengths of time. I’m not quite sure why this space isn’t open round the clock.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Garden Terrace

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Infinity Pool and Lounge

While I wasn’t able to visit the garden terrace, the associate working at the front desk was more than happy to give me a tour of the Infinity Pool and Lounge, despite the fact that it was 3 AM. The pool and lounge are located on the 9th floor of the hotel, and the facility is open from 7 AM to 8 PM daily.

The pool itself is very pretty, and overlooks Clarke Quay. You can see the marina in the distance.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Pool

There are a couple of vantage points around the pool that provide an especially great view of the surrounding area.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Pool View

The lounge connects the pool to the hotel’s lift lobby, and is open to all guests (also between 7 AM and 8 PM). It featured a coffee machine, and the associate was happy to make me a coffee as well.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Lounge

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Gym

The hotel doesn’t have an on-site gym, though they do partner with Trapeze Rec. Club, a 10-15 minute walk from the hotel. Access is complimentary for hotel guests, though you do have to make a booking with the front desk.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Restaurant

While I’ve heard great things about the hotel’s catering, unfortunately I wasn’t at the hotel long enough to experience their food and beverage selection. The hotel houses Kee’s Neo-Bistro and Bar, led by restauranteur Andrew Walsh.

21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore Restaurant – Kee’s Neo Bistro and Bar

Conclusion: 21 Carpenter Hotel Singapore

The 21 Carpenter in Singapore is a great new addition to Singapore’s hotel portfolio, and a great option if redeeming Marriott Bonvoy points. The rooms feel new and modern (despite reported teething issues), the public spaces are gorgeous, and I’ve heard good things about the food and beverage selection at this hotel as well.

However, I can’t pinpoint anything that makes this cute boutique hotel stand out from the competition. There isn’t an on-site gym, the opening hours of all of the public spaces are prohibitive, and the rooms don’t feature desks. I’d stay here again in a heartbeat if the price was right, though I’d probably try and sample some of the newer hotels that have opened recently around the area.