Title: Korean Air Celebrates Its 55th Anniversary
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/korean-air-celebrates-its-55th-anniversary/
--------------------------------------------------

1.1K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Korean Air was founded in 1969 and flew its first international route on October 2nd. The airline connected Seoul, Osaka, Taipei, Hong Kong, Saigon, and Bangkok. At that time, longhaul routes often included multiple stopovers. Fifth-freedom traffic rights positioned Korean Air as a critical bridge in Asia.

A direct Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) route launched on December 2, 1969. Cargo service to Hong Kong was added five years later on September 9, 1974. Korean Air started with two weekly passenger flights and has grown into 28 weekly Hong Kong flights (the route is the busiest in Korean Air’s Greater China network). Recently, the airline expanded its regional presence by launching new services to Macau International Airport (MFM).

To celebrate 55 years, Korean Air is thanking its customers and reflecting on the past five decades of service with special events and prizes. Today, October 2nd, passengers on Korean Air flight KE172 from Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) will have a chance to win special prizes. The 55th passenger to check in will receive a Prestige Class ticket and the 110th passenger will be awarded an Economy Class ticket for this route.

Park Ki Tae, Regional General Manager of Korean Air’s Hong Kong Passenger Sales Office, said:

This year marks an important milestone as we celebrate 55 years of passenger services and 50 years of cargo operations to Hong Kong. Korean Air has played a key role in connecting Hong Kong and Korea, not just through transportation, but also by fostering cultural and economic exchanges. We remain committed to serve as a vital bridge between these two regions, while continuously striving to provide our customers with exceptional service.”

Anthony’s Take: Korean Air is a critical part of SkyTeam and helps Delta and other carriers connect travelers throughout Asia. The airline has recently updated some of its cabins and I hope to fly them again soon.

(Image Credits: Korean Air.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.