Title: Papa Johns Is Getting Into Drone Delivery—but Not for Pizza
Source: Wired
URL: https://www.wired.com/story/papa-johns-is-getting-into-drone-delivery-but-its-not-flying-pizza/
--------------------------------------------------

Do City Delivery Drones Make Sense? No One Knows, but They're Flying Over NYC

One of the country’s busiest airspaces has a new kind of flying machine—maybe temporarily.

DHS Plans Experiment Running ‘Reconnaissance’ Drones Along the US-Canada Border

Autonomous drones and ground vehicles will stream “battlefield intelligence” over 5G along the US-Canada border in a bilateral DHS experiment this fall.

Emergency First Responders Say Waymos Are Getting Worse

“I believe the technology was deployed too quickly in too vast amounts, with hundreds of vehicles, when it wasn’t really ready,” one police official told federal regulators last month.

Tesla Reveals New Details About Robotaxi Crashes—and the Humans Involved

Remote operators (slowly) drove the automaker’s autonomous vehicles into a metal fence and a construction barricade, Tesla says.

After Struggling With EVs, US Automakers Pivot to Energy

Ford and GM are backing away from electric vehicles and moving into the battery storage business. And it all comes back to AI.

I've Covered Robots for Years. This One Is Different

From sorting chicken nuggets to screwing in lightbulbs, Eka’s robotic claw feels like we're approaching a ChatGPT moment for the physical world.

Using AI for Just 10 Minutes Might Make You Lazy and Dumb, Study Shows

New research suggests that reliance on AI assistants can have a negative impact on people’s ability to think and problem solve.

CUDA Proves Nvidia Is a Software Company

There’s a deep, forbidding moat that surrounds Nvidia—and it has nothing to do with hardware.

Waymo Is Trying to Crack Down on Solo Kids in Driverless Cars

As adult riders report new age-verification checks, the self-driving car company says it’s continuing to “refine” its system in places where kids aren’t allowed to ride alone.

Ace the Ping-Pong Robot Can Whup Your Ass

Ace can read the trajectory of a ball, adjust the racket angle, and respond with strokes that keep the exchange alive with real players.

Iran Is Using Tiny ‘Mosquito’ Boats to Shut Down the Strait of Hormuz

Iran’s traditional naval fleet has been almost completely destroyed by US-Israeli raids. But Iran’s military has put a fleet of small vessels on the water that is crippling every passageway.