Title: The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights Archer Aviation, GE Aerospace and Howmet Aerospace
Source: Yahoo Entertainment
URL: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/zacks-analyst-blog-highlights-archer-145300169.html
--------------------------------------------------

3 Defense Stocks to Watch in 2026

The stocks, discussed below, carry a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) each and have solid growth potential in 2026. You can see the complete list of today's Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

Archer Aviation: Headquartered San Jose, CA, the company is involved in designing and developing electric vertical takeoff and landing aircraft for use in urban air mobility. Archer Aviation is focusing on developing advanced, hybrid-electric electric Vertical Take-Off and Landing aircraft (eVTOLs) for military applications, partnering with defense firms, securing major contracts and making strategic acquisitions to build in-house defense manufacturing capabilities.

The Zacks Consensus Estimate for Archer Aviation's 2026 earnings implies a year-over-year increase of 12.6%. The stock has gained 13% over the past month.

GE Aerospace: Based in Evendale, OH, the company is a leading designer, developer and producer of jet engines, components and integrated systems for military, commercial and business aircraft. Growing popularity for the company's propulsion & additive technologies, critical aircraft systems and aftermarket services in the defense sector is driving the Defense & Propulsion Technologies business' performance. During the first nine months of the year, the company secured a $5 billion contract from the U.S. Air Force to supply F110 engines, parts and support services as part of a Foreign Military Sales program.

The Zacks Consensus Estimate for GE Aerospace's 2026 revenues and earnings implies a year-over-year increase of 11.7% and 13%, respectively. The stock has gained 7.1% over the past month.

Howmet Aerospace: Headquartered in Pittsburgh, PA, the company provides engineered solutions for customers in the transportation and aerospace (both defense and commercial) industries. Notably, it offers forged wheels for commercial use in the transportation industry. It also provides aerospace fastening systems, components used in jet engines and structural parts made of titanium used in defense and aerospace applications.

In December 2025, Howmet Aerospace announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing, LLC, a leading global designer and manufacturer of precision fasteners, fluid fittings, and other complex, highly engineered products for demanding aerospace and defense applications, from Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. The transaction is expected to be closed in the first half of 2026. This deal will allow HWM to better serve aerospace and defense customers with a broader offering of mission-critical fastening solutions.

The Zacks Consensus Estimate for Howmet Aerospace's 2026 revenues and earnings implies a year-over-year increase of 11.4% and 19.7%, respectively. The stock has gained 4% over the past month.

Why Haven't You Looked at Zacks' Top Stocks?

Since 2000, our top stock-picking strategies have blown away the S&P's +7.7% average gain per year. Amazingly, they soared with average gains of +48.4%, +50.2% and +56.7% per year.

Today you can access their live picks without cost or obligation.

See Stocks Free >>

Media Contact

Zacks Investment Research

800-767-3771 ext. 9339

support@zacks.com

https://www.zacks.com

Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit https://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.

Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report

GE Aerospace (GE) : Free Stock Analysis Report

Howmet Aerospace Inc. (HWM) : Free Stock Analysis Report

Archer Aviation Inc. (ACHR) : Free Stock Analysis Report

This article originally published on Zacks Investment Research (zacks.com).