Title: Singapore arranges flight to Oman for visitors affected by Middle East airspace disruption
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/tourists-middle-east-flight-muscat-oman-changi-airport-stb-5976346
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Singapore is making arrangements for a flight to Muscat, Oman, for foreign visitors who are affected by airspace disruptions in the Middle East.

Singapore Airlines (SIA) flight SQ8002 will depart Changi Airport at 5.30am local time on Mar 8, according to the Singapore Tourism Board (STB).

It is the corresponding outbound repatriation flight to the one that will bring home Singaporeans who have been stranded in the Middle East on Mar 7.

After dropping off passengers in Singapore, another plane will depart for Muscat the following morning.

"Please note that this flight is strictly for non-resident travellers currently in Singapore whose travel arrangements between Feb 28 and Mar 8 have been cancelled by an airline due to the closure of airspace in the Middle East," STB said.

In response to queries from CNA, STB said: "Travellers are responsible for all costs, including any onward travel to other destinations, accommodation, meals and ground transportation."

STB told CNA that the flight will facilitate passengers' return to their home destinations in the Middle East or help connect them to onward travel.

"Singapore is closely monitoring developments in the Middle East," STB added. "We understand the uncertainty and inconvenience caused by flight disruptions during this challenging period and remain committed to ensuring that Singapore continues to be a safe and welcoming destination for all visitors."

FLIGHT DETAILS

Tickets are priced at S$600 (US$470) per seat, with seating assigned at random, although efforts will be made to group families together.

Children aged two years and above are required to have their own seat and will be charged the same fare.

Passengers must also ensure that they have the necessary travel documents and visas for entry into Oman.

Affected passengers who wish to take the flight should register their interest at www.stb.gov.sg.

The deadline on Saturday was first extended from 9am to 1pm, and later to 3.30am on Sunday to "assist more passengers during this challenging period".

"We strongly encourage travellers to complete the registration form at https://go.gov.sg/8mar-sgtomuscatex and head to the check-in counter at Singapore Changi Airport Terminal 3 on Mar 8, 2026 between 0230hrs and 0330hrs," said STB.

Similar to the earlier flight, the trip to Muscat will offer no meal differentiation between cabin classes, and only meat or non-meat options are available.

There will be a baggage allowance of 30kg per passenger, and they are not allowed to purchase oversized or excess baggage.

Pets will not be allowed to be brought on board.

Passengers will also not be allowed to earn miles or use points to offset costs.

For more information, travellers can contact the STB Tourist Information Hotline at 1800 736 2000 or email stb_operations [at] stb.gov.sg, the agency said.

The fighting in the Middle East has caused major disruption to air travel across the region, with several countries temporarily closing their airspace following missile and drone attacks.

Airlines have cancelled or rerouted flights to avoid the region, leaving travellers stranded and forcing carriers to adjust flight paths between Asia, Europe and the Gulf.

MORE DETAILS ABOUT OMAN-SINGAPORE REPATRIATION FLIGHT

On Friday, SIA, which is supporting Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs in operating the repatriation flights, provided CNA with more details on the Oman-Singapore repatriation flight.

Airbus A350-900 aircraft will be deployed on the flights, SIA said.

"Safety is our highest priority, and the flight will be conducted in full compliance with all regulatory, operational and security requirements," the airline said.