Title: SAS Adds New Copenhagen – Seoul Route
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/sas-seoul-route/
--------------------------------------------------

SkyTeam member Scandinavian Airlines, more commonly known as SAS, has announced a new route linking its Copenhagen hub with Seoul, South Korea, a hub for fellow SkyTeam member Korean Air.

SAS Will Fly A350-900 On New Seoul Route

The new route will begin on September 12, 2025 and utilize an Airbus A350-900 jet, marking the first-ever nonstop route between Copenhagen Kastrup Airport (CPH) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN). Service will operate seasonally, four times weekly during the summer months and three times weekly during the winter.

Anko van der Werff, CEO of SAS, explained:

“This new route highlights our commitment to meeting customer demand and enhancing connectivity between two dynamic regions. Seoul, renowned as a global center of culture, innovation, and business, is a strategic addition to our growing network.

“As a proud SkyTeam member, this route further strengthens the seamless connectivity we provide, linking Scandinavia to key destinations across the globe. We are excited to welcome passengers on board this landmark service.”

SAS also added that Korea has seen a surge in interest from Scandinavian travelers in recent years, driven by “global phenomena like the Korean Wave, which includes the global popularity of K-pop, Korean dramas, and food.”

The A350 is the flagship SAS aircraft and I’ve reviewed it in economy class and business class. It seats 300.

The new route would typically fly over Russian airspace, making me wonder if SAS is banking on a conclusion of the war in Ukraine by that launch date. Finnair currently flies from Helsinki (HEL) to Seoul and takes a more southerly route to avoid Russian air space, adding at least an extra 90 minutes of flight time.

CONCLUSION

On the heels of its return to Seattle, SAS will also add new service to Seoul, beginning next September. The new service hopes to not only link Scandiancia with South Korea, but offers seamless connections in both direrctions to Europe and East Asia.