Title: Auxiliary police officer arrested for not returning service revolver after duty at Changi Airport
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/auxiliary-police-officer-changi-airport-arrested-failing-return-revolver-firearm-after-duty-4326701
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: An auxiliary police officer deployed at Changi Airport was arrested in the early hours on Friday (May 10) for failing to return his service revolver after his duty ended.

The 27-year-old man also did not return the ammunition and a baton to the armoury.

The police were alerted by security company Certis at about 9.50pm on Thursday. CNA understands that the man is Singaporean.

When the police arrived, the man had already left his workplace with his service revolver, 10 rounds of ammunition and baton, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) said in a news release on Friday.

The police added that they used closed-circuit television (CCTV) images and cameras to establish the man’s whereabouts.

More than 100 officers from the Criminal Investigation Department, Police Intelligence Department, Central Police Division, Bedok Police Division, Airport Police Division and Special Operations Command responded to the incident.

The man was arrested two-and-a-half hours later in a shopping mall along Victoria Street. The items were found in his bag. Information on which mall the arrest took place was not revealed as investigations are ongoing.

Based on preliminary investigations, the man had reported to work and drawn his revolver before beginning his deployment at Changi Airport.

In a statement to the media, Certis said that he failed to return his firearm at the end of his shift, and this was detected by the company's automated arms management system.

"Certis management was immediately alerted and the police was subsequently informed," a Certis spokesperson said, adding that the company has "put in place stringent systems and processes to detect and deal with such incidents in a timely manner, including a warning system that triggers an alert when a firearm is not returned post-duty".

After his shift, the man changed out of his uniform and left his workplace with the revolver, ammunition and baton without authorisation, said the police.

The items were recovered from the man and the revolver was not discharged or used against anyone during the incident, said the police.

The Certis spokesperson said that the man has been suspended from service pending further police investigations.

"Certis will continue to render our full assistance to the police in their investigations," the spokesperson said.

"The safety of the public is our utmost priority. Certis has zero tolerance for misuse of firearms and we expect full compliance from our officers to adhere to our strict protocol on weapons and controlled equipment."

The man will be charged in court on Saturday for unlawful carrying of a firearm.

The offence carries a potential jail term of between five and 14 years, and at least six strokes of the cane.

“The man involved in the unlawful carrying of a firearm has demonstrated a blatant disregard for the law and abused the firearms entrusted to him for his duties,” said acting deputy commissioner of police Zhang Weihan.

“Police officers had worked tirelessly to secure his swift arrest and ensured that public safety was maintained,” added Acting DC Zhang, who is also the director of the Criminal Investigation Department.

“The police will not tolerate such acts that endanger the public’s safety.”