Title: Airlines have fallen back in love with the Airbus A380. Here's every route flown by the world's largest passenger jet.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/every-airline-flies-the-airbus-a380-and-their-destinations-2024-7
--------------------------------------------------

Dubai's airline is by far the world's largest operator of the A380. Emirates has a total of 116, with 95 of them active.

Like its rival Middle Eastern airlines, Emirates' A380 is highly luxurious — with business-class passengers able to visit the bar or even book a shower.

The airline's president, Tim Clark, told Business Insider earlier this year that he'd like Airbus to build a new version of the A380 with more fuel-efficient engines.

Emirates' plethora of planes comes with a similarly broad route map. Brace yourself for an extensive list.

Emirates flies the A380 between Dubai and Amman, Jordan; Amsterdam; Auckland, New Zealand; Bangkok; Barcelona; Bengaluru, India; Birmingham, England; Brisbane, Australia; Cairo; Casablanca, Morocco; Copenhagen, Denmark; Denpasar, Indonesia; Düsseldorf, Germany; Frankfurt, Germany; Glasgow, Scotland; Hong Kong; Houston; Istanbul; Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Johannesburg; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; London Gatwick; London Heathrow; Los Angeles; Madrid; Manchester, England; Mauritius; Melbourne, Australia; Milan; Moscow; Mumbai, India; Munich; New York; Nice, France; Osaka, Japan; Paris; Perth, Australia; Prague; Rome; San Francisco; São Paulo; Seoul; Shangahi; Singapore; Sydney; Taipei; Tokyo Narita; Toronto; Vienna; Washington, DC; and Zurich.

Emirates also operates three fifth-freedom flights with the A380, between Christchurch, New Zealand and Sydney; Bangkok and Hong Kong; and Milan and New York.

British Airways has 12 Airbus A380s.

Skytrax ranked the airline's first class 10th this year. However, BA has also launched a $9 billion "transformation program," which includes retrofitting its A380s with an upgraded first class that is expected to debut next year.

"The A380 is an important part of our fleet and rightfully, incredibly popular with our customers," Neil Chernoff, BA's chief planning and strategy officer, previously told Business Insider.

Behind Emirates, BA offers the second-highest number of destinations, most of which are in the US.

BA flies the A380 between London Heathrow and Dubai, Johannesburg, Los Angeles, Miami, and San Francisco.

Singapore Airlines also has a fleet of 12 double-decker jets, having retired seven due to the pandemic.

The carrier is one of just 10 to receive a five-star rating from Skytrax. It named Singapore Airlines' business class the second-best behind Qatar Airways, but top for first-class.

The airline offers enormous suites on its A380s, which have both an armchair and a bed. Two of these can also be uniquely combined to create a double bed.

Singapore flies the A380 between Singapore Changi Airport and Frankfurt, London, Mumbai, New Delhi, and Sydney.

Qatar Airways cleaned up at this year's Skytrax awards, winning both best airline and best business class.

Like Emirates, the airline's A380 includes a bar for business-class passengers. It also has huge bathrooms, but lacks showers.

Qatar's A380s, perhaps surprisingly, don't feature its flagship business-class product, the QSuite, which you'll find on the A350 and Boeing 777 and 787.

Following delays to the Boeing 777X, Qatar reversed plans to retire the A380.

Its former CEO, Akbar Al-Bakar, said in 2021 that buying the planes was a "big mistake," given their high operating costs.

However, on the sidelines of last year's Farnborough Airshow, current CEO Badr Mohammed Al-Meer said the quad-engine was getting a new lease of life.

Qatar has eight A380s, which it operates between Doha and Bangkok, London, Paris, and Sydney.

The German flag carrier has a fleet of eight A380s.

It appears to prefer the only other double-decker jet, as Lufthansa operates the most Boeing 747 jets of any passenger airline.

Lufthansa initially retired all 14 of its A380s during the pandemic before changing its mind as travel demand bounced back. The other six were sold back to Airbus, Airways Magazine reported in 2023.

Lufthansa's A380s go between Munich and Bangkok, Los Angeles, New Delhi, and San Francisco.

Korean Air is one of four airlines on this list, and 11 around the world, to be rated five stars by Skytrax.

It has six A380s, which it flies from Seoul's Incheon Airport to Frankfurt, New York, and Tokyo.

But four-engined jets appear to be falling out of favor here. In 2021, CEO Walter Cho told FlightGlobal that its A380s would be retired by 2026 and its Boeing 747s by 2031.

Asiana Airlines has six A380s.

During the pandemic, Asiana flew empty superjumbos to keep its pilots certified.

The second Seoul-based carrier on this list, Asiana has merged with Korean Air. For now, it's operated as a subsidiary but will use the same name from 2027.

The combined entity could have 12 A380s, depending on Korean's plans to retire its A380s.

Until then, Asiana regularly flies these jets from Seoul to Frankfurt, Los Angeles, and Sydney.