Title: South Korean workers who were released after days of detention in Georgia return home
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4339981/posts
--------------------------------------------------

NY Post ^ | 9/12/25 | Associated Press

Posted on by Libloather

More than 300 South Korean workers detained in an immigration raid in the United States last week were brought back home on a charter plane and reunited with their loved ones on Friday.

They were among about 475 people detained during the Sept. 4 immigration raid at a battery factory under construction on the campus of Hyundai’s sprawling auto plant west of Savannah.

Their roundup and the US release of video showing some Korean workers shackled with chains around their hands, ankles and waists have caused public outrage and a sense of betrayal in South Korea, a key US ally.

After their charter plane, a Boeing 747-8i from Korean Air, landed at Incheon International Airport, just west of Seoul, they appeared in an arrivals hall, with senior officials including presidential chief of staff Kang Hoon-sik clapping hands. One hugged Kang.

Hundreds of journalists gathered at the airport to cover their arrival. One protester unfurled a huge banner with a photo of President Donald Trump and a message criticizing US immigration crackdowns before security officials persuaded him to stop.

The South Korean Foreign Ministry asked media to blur the workers’ faces in video and photos at the airport, citing requests by the workers who worried about their privacy.

The plane carried 330 people who were detained in the Georgia raid — 316 of them are South Koreans, including a pregnant woman, and the rest are Chinese, Japanese and Indonesian workers. They had been held at an immigration detention center in Folkston, 285 miles southeast of Atlanta.

The workers’ release provided relief to their families and colleagues, some of whom came to the airport to meet them.

(Excerpt) Read more at nypost.com ...

TOPICS: Business/Economy; Conspiracy; History; Local News

KEYWORDS: detention; georgia; korea; workers Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-32 next last

Heartwarming. NEXT!

1 posted on by Libloather

To: Libloather

Say bye!

2 posted on by Wally_Kalbacken

To: Libloather

3 posted on by Bon of Babble (You Say You Want a Revolution?)

To: Libloather

4 posted on by Worldtraveler once upon a time (Degrow government)

To: Libloather

“South Korean workers who were released after days of detention in Georgia return home”

Would it be too much to ask to have them return to Korea rather than home? Had to read in a few paragraphs to ensure what home meant to the author.

5 posted on by TheDon (Remember the J6 political prisoners! Remember Ashli Babbitt!)

To: Bon of Babble

The writer of that understands little.

We are *their* key ally, make no mistake about it. They’d be starving Communists if it weren’t for us.

6 posted on by FreedomPoster (Islam delenda est)

To: Libloather

7 posted on by LouAvul (1 John 2:22: Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist.)

To: Worldtraveler once upon a time

Well said and good point by someone with experience on the topic. Thanks.

8 posted on by TheDon (Remember the J6 political prisoners! Remember Ashli Babbitt!)

To: Bon of Babble

The only thing south Korea should feel is shame and embarrassment at having violated the laws of their allies.

9 posted on by TheDon (Remember the J6 political prisoners! Remember Ashli Babbitt!)

To: Wally_Kalbacken

10 posted on by Wally_Kalbacken

To: Libloather

This would have never happened had Hyundai sent the workers over with legitimate WORK visas as required by US law. They all came on TOURIST visas, and as such could not seek gainful employment in the USA.

11 posted on by RayChuang88 (.FairTax: America's Economic Cure)

To: Libloather

12 posted on by tennmountainman ( (“Less propaganda would be appreciated.” JimRobr 12-2-2023 DITTO)

To: Libloather

Funny how hundreds of Koreans just “go home” when busted, but if a Third Worlder is caught DHS has to prosecute them individually, taking months in some cases, just to get a deportation order, which will then just be stayed by a judge in response to an order from an NGO lawyer.

13 posted on by montag813

To: RayChuang88

14 posted on by Worldtraveler once upon a time (Degrow government)

To: Libloather

They have rocks in S Korea, let them kick them around in their home country. A giant sucking sound happens when foreigners earn a living IN OUR COUNTRY, and send it home. I would rather one crackhead earn a living in the US, then the best citizen in another nation.

Is the benefit to the world by our industry, OUR jobs feeding foreigners, while people here live on the streets? I am thinking so.

If Mexico needs to have more production and income for their poor impoverished POS country, then follow the American governmental model.

If America wants more production and income for OUR people, go back to the past, and find our way back to enterpreneurship by individuals, and away from the example of BLACKROCK.

On BLACKROCK, isn’t that a reference to the Antichrist/Allah (my opinion) in a cube in Mecca?

The best thing to happen to these large corporations “investing” I call it stealing, housing, and holding it as an investment. That should literally be a crime, there must be limits to how many private homes are in the hands of corporations. Housing is meant for PEOPLE, not for corporations. Force Blackrock into bankruptcy, strip them naked, and let them thrash and wail.

15 posted on by Glad2bnuts

To: montag813

Maybe the Koreans didn’t want to drag out it. If they can’t work and make money here then at least they can go back and get some dog.

16 posted on by Tell It Right (1 Thessalonians 5:21 -- Put everything to the test, hold fast to that which is true.)

To: RayChuang88

I don’t get it why they can’t just follow the rules. Would it be so difficult to get work visas for the key people they need to build their factory?

17 posted on by smokingfrog ( sleep with one eye open (<o> --- )

To: Libloather

“A truth that’s told with bad intent, Beats all the lies you can invent.”

William Blake

18 posted on by mewzilla (Swing away, Mr. President, swing away! 🇺🇸 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿)

To: Libloather

19 posted on by vpintheak (All the left is, is violence.)

To: Libloather

20 posted on by Campion (Everything is a grace, everything is the direct effect of our Father's love - Little Flower)

Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-32 next last

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson