Title: Maison 21G Ventures Into The Travel Retail Universe with A New Collection
Source: Luxuo.com
URL: https://www.luxuo.com/style/beauty/maison-21g-ventures-into-travel-retail.html
--------------------------------------------------

Maison 21G embarks on a voyage into the world of travel retail, marking a significant milestone in its strong three-year journey. With immense pride, the brand unveils an enchanting collection of exclusive bespoke products, making a statement in The Shilla Duty Free Singapore Terminals 1 & 2, DFS Macau Galaxy and DFS Hysan Hong Kong. This exciting development allows fragrance enthusiasts and travellers alike to indulge in the brand’s exquisite offerings while traversing the globe.

Read More : Maison 21G Opens First Boutique at Dubai Hills

Embracing the essence of self-creation and scent personalization, Maison 21G is thrilled to unveil an extraordinary retail collection that epitomises creativity and individuality never seen before — perfect for your travel adventures or a last minute gift for a loved one. They have meticulously crafted nine sensational combinations, each carefully researched to ensure the perfect fragrance pairing.

Each set features a 30ml main scent and a 3ml essence, empowering you to tailor your own bespoke perfume fragrance experience. Infuse the essence from the dropper into the perfume bottle — whether you dare to unleash its full aromatic potential or savour the suspense with a subtle touch, the choice is yours to make. Unearth your distinctive signature scent, exclusively available at Singapore’s The Shilla Terminal 1 & 2, priced at S$130.

Read More : Be the Master of Your Own Scent at Maison 21G Paris

Through an extraordinary reinvention of their best-selling Dual Crayon, Maison 21G introduces six different impeccable scent pairings that elevates your on-the-go fragrance experience to new heights. Boasting a sleek and stylish design, this portable gem fits in your pocket or bag effortlessly, making it the ultimate travel companion for business trips, heartwarming reunions or revitalising moments during flights.

Take Maison 21G’s personality quiz to discover the scents that perfectly align with your unique character to mix and match with the revolutionary Dual Crayon. Each Dual Crayon contains two 5ml Eau de Parfum sprays and one sleek black connector. Discover the convenience and allure of your two scents on the go, exclusively available at Singapore’s The Shilla Terminal 1 & 2, priced at S$46 .

Read More: Johanna Monange, Founder of Maison 21G Shares Her Business Philosophy

Indulge in the art of personal expression with the Petite Collection, designed to unleash your creativity by allowing you to create your own scent narrative through the practice of mixing and matching. This collection grants you the freedom to layer fragrances in endless combinations. Choose between the elegant aura of La Parisienne or the refreshing breeze of French Riviera, each offering four captivating scents. Write your own scent story or empower a loved one with this collection. Each set contains four 5ml Eau de Parfum sprays and one sleek black connector. Create your own unique scent story with the Petite Collection, exclusively available at Singapore’s The Shilla Terminal 1 & 2, priced at S$82.80.

Read More : Parisian Perfumers Maison 21G Revolutionise the Art of Gifting

As Maison 21G gracefully steps into the travel retail universe, the brand invites travellers, trendsetters and fragrance aficionados to indulge their senses, embrace their individuality and embark on an unforgettable olfactory voyage unlike any other. Maison 21G beautifully showcases that the art of perfumery knows no boundaries. Whether in the comfort of your own home, exploring a new country or soaring through the skies, Maison 21G is the perfect travel companion.

The new Maison 21G travel range is available at :

The Shilla Duty Free Singapore Terminal 1 – Changi International Airport Terminal 1, 80 Airport Boulevard, #02-37/ 38, Singapore 819642

The Shilla Duty Free Singapore Terminal 2 – Changi International Airport Terminal 2, 60 Airport Boulevard, #02-103E, Singapore 819643

DFS Macau Galaxy – Shop G041, G043, G045, Galaxy Macau™️ Resort, Cotai, Nascente da Avenida Marginal Flor de Lótus e a Sul da Estrada da Baía de Nossa Senhora da Esperança, Macau, China

DFS Hysan Hong Kong – 1502, Hysan Place, 500 Hennessy Road, Causeway Bay