Title: This is the longest flight in the world — here’s how to survive it
Source: New York Post
URL: https://nypost.com/2025/10/14/lifestyle/this-is-the-longest-flight-in-the-world-heres-how-to-survive-it/
--------------------------------------------------

A new route just set a sky-high record.

There’s a new record for the world’s longest nonstop flight, knocking Singapore Airlines’ route from John F. Kennedy International Airport to Singapore Changi Airport from the top spot.

As of Oct. 2025, Xiamen Air’s 19-hour, 20-minute flight from JFK to Fuzhou Changle International Airport (FOC) in southern China is the longest flight, Simple Flying reported.

This flight route previously operated between 2017 and 2020 and returned in 2024 — but this appears to be the first time the time block has been that high.

The flight covers 7,0777 miles — or 6,752 nautical miles — each way.

However, the reason the long route takes nearly 20 hours is that Xiamen Air does not operate through Russian airspace en route to or from the US, so the flight has to maneuver around it.

Other airlines don’t necessarily avoid Russia, so their block times will be lower than Xiamen Air’s. For example, Cathay Pacific flights over Russia at times, so a Cathay flight from JFK to Hong Kong is timed at up to 16 hours and 25 minutes.

Ultra-long nonstop flights have become more common as newer plane models are able to hold more fuel, and some passengers would rather avoid a long layover.

These longer flights can also help avoid the stress of a missed connecting flight.

Top 10 longest flights in the world

Travel magazine Afar compiled a list of the 10 longest flights, in order of duration:

New York (JFK) to Fuzhou (FCO) – 19 hours, 20 minutes

Newark (EWR) to Singapore (SIN) – 19 hours, 10 minutes

New York (JFK) to Singapore (SIN) – 18 hours, 55 minutes

New York (JFK) to Auckland (AKL) – 17 hours, 45 minutes

London (LHR) to Perth (PER) – 17 hours, 45 minutes

Auckland (AKL) to Doha (DOH) – 17 hours, 20 minutes

Dallas (DFW) to Melbourne (MEL) – 17 hours, 35 minutes

Paris (CDG) to Perth (PER) – 17 hours, 20 minutes

Dubai (DBX) to Auckland (AKL) – 17 hours, 15 minutes

Johannesburg (JBO) to Atlanta (ATL) – 17 hours

How to survive a long-haul flight

If you’re one of those people who would rather just get to their destination than have to deal with a layover, it probably still sounds dreadful to be on a plane for that long — but there are ways to get through it.

As flight attendants will tell you, preparation for long-haul flights start before boarding, even before the day of the flight.

Qantas Airlines’ magazine Travel Insider suggested spending time at the gym, walking or stretching the day prior to the flight.

“Make sure you’re well-rested, too – denying yourself sleep in order to be exhausted on the plane can backfire.”

Wearing loose clothes can make the flight more comfortable, and wearing layers can help if your body temperature fluctuates or if the cabin air changes. A scarf can also double as an eye mask, blanket or pillow.

A travel neck pillow, blanket, eye mask, earplugs and noise-canceling headphones can also make your flight experience more pleasant.

Additionally, make sure all your devices are fully charged and come prepared with a charging device as well as backup entertainment, such as a book. It’s also good to have some snacks on hand, even if there’ll be food onboard.

It’s vital to stay hydrated, too. “When you’re dehydrated, your mood, energy levels, and cognitive function will all drop. It’s also responsible for dry, flaky skin, headaches, and irritability,” Qantas’ Travel Insider said.

To feel clean throughout the flight, bring a little kit with a brush or comb, deodorant, toothpaste and toothbrush to stay fresh.