Title: Visit Singapore’s Brand-New Tropical Oasis In The Clouds
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/wendyaltschuler/2023/07/11/visit-singapores-brand-new-tropical-oasis-in-the-clouds/
--------------------------------------------------

Fans of the hit movie, Crazy Rich Asians, which is set in Singapore, will love the “Garden City” at first sight. From the moment you arrive at the lush and tropical Jewel Changi Airport, home to the world’s tallest indoor waterfall—the Rain Vortex, you’ll find yourself breathing a bit deeper and moving with curiosity. This island country is full of intentional parks and spaces, including Singapore Botanic Gardens and Gardens by the Bay.

Your jaw will leave its resting position and most certainly fall agape when you first catch sight of Singapore’s just-opened emerald 23-story hotel in the clouds: Pan Pacific Orchard, Singapore, beautifully nestled in the Orchard Road shopping district. It’s like something out of an urban nature-y fairy tale.

It’s a new and brighter era for luxury hotels, one that is more environmentally friendly and visibly leafier. Modern and interesting, with over 150,000 square-feet of avocado-colored vegetation and inventive water features, Pan Pacific Hotels and Resorts’ new gem, designed by WOHA Architects, fits in with Singapore’s bold move toward a greener and more sustainable future.

You’ll notice right away that the architecture includes an open-air lobby with a stunning high ceiling, which helps encourage air flow and moderates the temperature. Rainwater collection, renewable solar panel technology, a bio-digester system that converts food waste into cleaning water, and filtered water taps and reusable glass water bottles in the residential-style rooms are also implemented, among other initiatives.

The smart and comfortable community spaces at this verdant property, where fresh air travels about freely and natural light is abundant, are seamlessly woven together with coordinating design touches yet offer wholly different ambiances. Enjoy the Instagram-worthy nature-filled terraced environments—Forest, Beach, Garden, and Cloud and decide for yourself which area is best.

Request a well-appointed room with a view of the swimming pool and the foliage-covered columns. No matter which room category you choose from the 347 rooms and suites, however, you can expect luxury amenities, deluxe bedding, and top-notch service throughout your stay. The team here aims to please.

Be sure to indulge in an inventive cocktail at Florette prior to your dinner reservation at Mosella, the signature restaurant, which serves colorful Mediterranean fare with a distinctive and fun Peruvian twist. Arrive hungry and start with tangy ceviche and delectable burrata. Add zucchini flowers and empanadas and try the black cod or lobster from the grill. A must-order, the red piquillo peppers will melt in your mouth. Leave room for dessert, of course, as the chef will prepare a perfectly sweet end to your dining adventure. Pair your feast with a cocktail or mocktail or an end-of-meal tipple.

The hotel is effortlessly located near all that the “City in a Garden” has to offer. There’s plenty to walk to around the property and the train station, which is clean, quiet, fast, and nearby.

With a reputation as one of the most expensive cities in the world, Singapore is also a strong contender for the cleanest and greenest, in Southeast Asia and well beyond.