Title: The World’s Best Airport Hotels, According To A 2024 Report
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/brittanyanas/2024/05/11/the-worlds-best-airport-hotels-according-to-a-2024-report/
--------------------------------------------------

A stay at an airport hotel is usually booked with convenience in mind. You’ve got an early morning flight and want to be close to your departure gate or you’ve got a layover that’s too long to wait out in the lounge, yet too short to venture deep into a city. But some airport hotels go above and beyond with their amenities and design, and, Skytrax, a London-based air transport ratings organization, rates airport hotels each year.

The world’s best airport hotel in 2024 is: Crowne Plaza Changi Airport in Singapore, according to Skytrax.

The IHG Hotels & Resorts Hotel in Singapore is a repeat winner on the organization’s best airport hotel list, clinching the No. 1 spot for the past nine years.

A major hub for travel throughout Asia, the Singapore Changi Airport is a traveler favorite thanks in part to the Jewel, a nature-themed retail and entertainment complex with amenities like the 7-story rain vortex, a hedge maze, shops, and restaurants all set among a lush landscape with more than 2,000 trees and palms and 10,000 shrubs.

The top airport hotel in the United States, and also high on the global list, is the wonderfully nostalgic TWA Hotel at New York’s JFK airport where you can enjoy a libation in a 1958 Lockheed Constellation “Connie” airplane that’s been transformed into a cocktail lounge.

The Airport Hotel Awards are determined by guest surveys, which use criteria like access to the airport, friendly staff, cleanliness of rooms and bathrooms, a bedroom that allows for a goodnight sleep, hotel amenities, and value.

Ahead, find out which airport hotels are the best in the world — and what sets them apart.

What Are The Best Airport Hotels in the World in 2024?

1. Crowne Plaza Changi Airport in Singapore

The top airport hotel has rooms with runway views and a beautifully landscaped outdoor pool.

2. Hyatt Regency Shenzhen Airport in China

For travelers looking for a pick-me-up, the onsite spa is open until 11 p.m. and is outfitted with a sauna and steam room.

3. TWA Hotel at New York’s JFK Airport in the U.S.

Heated to 95 degrees and open year-round, the rooftop pool at TWA Hotel is a plane watcher’s paradise.

4. Hilton Munich Airport in Germany

Grab a nightcap at the Nightflight bar, which is located in an atrium with palm trees and greets weary travelers until 1:30 a.m.

5. Fairmont Vancouver Airport in Canada

Fairmont’s strong presence in Vancouver includes a luxury hotel at the airport where guests can watch planes take off with picturesque mountains in the backdrop.

6. Grand Hyatt at SFO in the U.S.

The luxury 351-room hotel has a dedicated AirTrain stop to get guests to and from their gates seamlessly, plus a nice collection of art and oversized bathtubs in the guestrooms.

7. Mövenpick Hotel Bahrain

Daily “chocolate hour” rituals and a light-filled atrium serving French fare are perks at this airport hotel.

8. Hilton Amsterdam Schiphol Airport in the Netherlands

A covered walkway links the hotel to the airport, and 15-minute train ride zips visitors to downtown Amsterdam to see the restaurants, markets, and museums.

9. Pullman Guangzhou Airport

This 500-room hotel has an on-site Chinese restaurant and a buffet, plus nice touches like a pool table, courtyard pool, and a spa.

10. Sofitel London Heathrow

Sofitel’s posh airport hotel has a tea room serving teas from around the world and La Belle Époque, a fine dining French restaurant.

What Are The Best Airport Hotels in North America in 2024?

The Skytrax team also named the five best hotels in North America, three of which made its global list.

1.TWA Hotel at New York’s JFK Airport in the U.S.

2. Fairmont Vancouver Airport in Canada

3. Grand Hyatt at SFO in the U.S.

4. The Westin SFO Airport

5. The Westin Denver International Airport