Title: New Formula 1-grade tracks planned in South Korea and China | RaceFans Round-up
Source: RaceFans
URL: https://www.racefans.net/2024/04/10/racefans-round-up-10-04-7/
--------------------------------------------------

In brief

Incheon seeks F1 race

The South Korean city Incheon, which borders its capital Seoul, is hoping to lure F1 back for the first time since 2013 with a street race according to Korean news agency Yonhap. Mayor Yoo Jeong-bok made representations to Formula One Management during the Japanese Grand Prix weekend.

“Incheon is the best place to host F1, as it has a transportation network such as Incheon Airport and Incheon Port and many luxury accommodations,” he said. “We will begin full-scale discussions to host F1 Incheon.”

He hopes to agree a five-deal to host the race beginning in 2026 or 2027. F1’s last spell in South Korea started in 2010 when it held the first of four races at the Korea International Circuit in Jeonnam.

Guangdong plans F1 track

A second Formula 1-grade circuit is being planned in the city of Guangdong, GD Today reports. It lies around 1,200 kilometres south-west of Shanghai, which the Chinese Grand Prix will be held next week.

Plans for the track were revealed in the Guangdong Province 2024 Key Construction Project Plan. The circuit will form part of a park for international motorsports. Guangdong is investing 1 trillion yuan (£109 million) per year in regional development projects.

Ricciardo and Bottas test at Suzuka

Rain affected the first of two days of tyre testing Pirelli arranged at Suzuka< yesterday, so Daniel Ricciardo and Valtteri Bottas took the opportunity to test the performance of the manufacturer’s latest intermediate rubber without heating blankets.

After covering 33 laps between them in wet conditions, the pair went on to log a total of 239 laps. Bottas will continue to test tomorrow while Yuki Tsunoda is due to take over in the RB.

No Malukas at Long Beach

McLaren have confirmed David Malukas has not recovered quickly enough from the wrist injury he incurred during the off-season to drive for them in next week’s race at Long Beach. With Callum Ilott unable to continue as substitute due to his clashing commitment in the World Endurance Championship, the team is considering options for a replacement. Formula 2 champion Theo Pourchaire is understood to be one candidate.

Advert | Become a RaceFans supporter and go ad-free

Ilott will continue to drive for them in testing for the Indianapolis 500 today and tomorrow, rejoining their regular drivers Pato O’Ward and Alexander Rossi.

Legge back for Indy 500

Katherine Legge will compete in the Indianapolis 500 again this year, having returned to the race in 2023 for the first time in a decade. She will drive Coyne’s number 51 car.

Fatal accident in Catalunya paddock

A fatal accident occured in the paddock of the Circuit de Catalunya in Spain yesterday as preparations began for the Four Hours of Barcelona event.

Proton Huber Competition team manager Gerhard Freundorfer was involved in an incident involving his team’s truck. Despite prompt attention by medical staff at the circuit, Freundorfer could not be saved.

“On behalf of the Circuit we deeply regret this accident and would like to extend our deepest condolences to Gerhard’s family, friends and the entire paddock of the European Le Mans Series,” said the track’s managing director Josep Lluis Santamaria.