Title: Delta to scrap connecting flight baggage checks in U.S. from Haneda
Source: Japan Today
URL: https://japantoday.com/category/features/travel/delta-to-scrap-connecting-flight-baggage-checks-in-u.s.-from-haneda
--------------------------------------------------

The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.

Learn how to get a mortgage in Japan. The webinar will be held from 7pm to 8pm (JST) on June 25 (Thursday), 2026.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.

From a security stand point, they should have just quietly implement the change and say nothing about it, but the cat is out of the bag now.

Let’s hope it doesn’t come back to bite them in the back side…Especially since that’s my primary carrier for 9/10’s of my life.

Especially since that’s my primary carrier for 9/10’s of my life.

Sending passengers through security when departing Japan and then again when arriving in the U.S. always seems trivial — a massive waste of time and resources.

Govt just love redundancy and inefficiency, especially when private sectors obey them to do same pattern.

Delta is by far the best of the US airlines. That’s not saying much though, compared to most East Asian airlines.

I wonder about passengers like me transferring to Canada from a US airport. In the past, doing the baggage thing in Seattle wasn't a big deal, as the immigration and security folks there are a lot nicer and efficient than their counterparts in (ugh) Vancouver.

My last couple of flights on Delta have been great, by the way.

My last couple of flights on Delta have been great, by the way.

Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.

Learn how to get a mortgage in Japan. The webinar will be held from 7pm to 8pm (JST) on June 25 (Thursday), 2026.

Join us for an unforgettable evening of networking, aloha-inspired live music by SHEN and free flowing drinks and buffet at TWO ROOMS NIHOMBASHI. July 2 (Thurs), 7pm to 9:30pm.

Get your ticket now for a 50% Discount. Only 50 Early Bird Tickets Available.