Title: Book now: Air Canada Aeroplan increasing many partner redemption rates from June 1
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/air-canada-aeroplan-increasing-partner-costs/
--------------------------------------------------

Air Canada's Aeroplan loyalty program will increase the cost of many partner redemption rates for bookings made from June 1.

While devaluations are an unwelcome and unfortunate reality of earning points and miles, this price increase is relatively mild compared with recent ones announced by other programs. Aeroplan partner redemptions will remain a great deal, and the program has at least given more than one month's notice of the changes.

Here's what's changing and what you should do now.

Related: Why Air Canada Aeroplan has become my favorite Star Alliance loyalty program

Aeroplan will increase many partner award rates

Aeroplan will retain a fixed award chart for most partner-operated flights. For flights operated by Air Canada and select partner airlines like Emirates, Etihad Airways and United Airlines, Aeroplan will continue to price these dynamically, which often doesn't offer great value.

Aeroplan uses a unique hybrid award chart system that combines region-based and distance-based pricing. Regions are generously defined and have been a great way to book flights on partner-operated airlines like Lufthansa, EVA Air and TAP Air Portugal at great rates, especially in premium cabins.

Redemptions from North America to Europe will see many changes, according to newly published award charts, with prices for bookings made from June 1 on (regardless of travel date) changing to:

The longtime sweet spot of flying from the Northeast to Western Europe in business class on flights of under 4,000 miles remains unchanged, which is great news for travelers.

Redemptions to the "Pacific" region, which generously covers Asia, Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific islands, will also see the following changes:

With few airlines offering first-class partner award seats to this region in 2026, it's great to see most business-class rates, like EVA Air's impressive product to Taiwan, remain unchanged.

There are also several changes to redemptions made from the Atlantic to the Pacific regions, as follows:

Related: United adds 3 new Asia-Pacific destinations with a unique twist

What's not changing

The following award charts will not change in price in June:

Within North America (such as domestic United-operated flights and short-haul flights to Canada)

Between North America and South America and within South America (such as flights operated by Copa Airlines)

Between South America and the Atlantic and between South America and the Asia-Pacific region

How to earn Aeroplan points

You can transfer the following credit card rewards to Aeroplan at a 1:1 transfer ratio:

American Express Membership Rewards points

Bilt Points

Capital One miles

Chase Ultimate Rewards points

Related: Why transferable points and miles are worth more than other rewards

Bottom line

Devaluations are never good news, and this announcement from Air Canada's Aeroplan program is no different. Luckily, the rate increases are relatively mild, and you have more than a month to lock in redemptions at existing rates. The latter is particularly welcome, as many devaluations are made without notice.

Aeroplan is and will continue to be a great Star Alliance redemption option. It also has a number of nonalliance partners to earn and redeem points with. Not to mention, as a transfer partner of so many major transferable currencies, Aeroplan points are easy to earn.

Just remember to make your bookings prior to June 1 if you wish to book at current rates.

Related reading: