Title: The World’s Best Airlines And Airports, The Most Powerful Passports And More Travel News
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/passport/2025/10/24/the-worlds-best-airlines-and-airports-the-most-powerful-passports-and-more-travel-news/
--------------------------------------------------

Why Taormina Is Attracting The Luxury Property Jet Set

Long before it was the setting for Season 2 of The White Lotus, Taormina—a picturesque hilltop village on Sicily’s east coast—already had a rich cultural history. Goethe and D.H. Lawrence waxed poetically about it, but perhaps French novelist Guy de Maupassant said it best when he wrote that Taormina has a “landscape in which you can find all that seems to be created on earth to seduce the eyes, the mind and the imagination.” These days, Taormina is attracting a new generation of travelers and tourists—as well as luxury real estate buyers looking for a dreamy second (or third) home. According to Forbes Global Properties, here’s what you need to know about buying real estate in Taormina.

Forbes Travel Guide’s Top Airlines And Airports 2025

From curbside check-in to in-flight service, every detail of a flight can make a trip more (or less) enjoyable. That is why Forbes Travel Guide’s second annual Verified Air Travel Awards celebrate those airlines and airports that deliver a world-class experience. For the second consecutive year, Emirates and Delta Air Lines won Best International Airline and Best U.S. Airline, respectively. New York’s LaGuardia was named the Best U.S. Airport, while Singapore Changi took the honor of Best International Airport. And Air New Zealand earned Innovation of the Year for its new Skycouch seats. See the full list of winners for Forbes Travel Guide’s 2025 Verified Air Travel Awards.

Europe’s Most Beautiful Christmas Markets 2025

Anyone who has spent the Christmas season in a European city knows that the twinkling lights, artisan crafts, and specialty food and drinks of festive markets are a major draw. Every year, European Best Destinations polls thousands of international travelers to determine Europe’s most beautiful Christmas markets. This year, the dazzling Wienachtsdorf in Zurich was ranked No. 1, with Vienna and Strasbourg, France rounding out the top three.

This is the published version of Forbes’ Passport newsletter, which offers a first-class guide to luxury travel. Click here to get it delivered to your inbox every Friday.

Travel Wise

For the first time in history, the United States is not among the world’s 10 most powerful passports, dropping to No. 12 on the 2025 Henley Passport Index, a ranking based on the number of countries accessible without a visa. Americans can travel visa-free to 180 countries—putting the U.S. on par with Malaysia in the annual ranking. For the second year in a row, Singapore was ranked No. 1 (with access to 193 countries), South Korea was second (190) and Japan (189) was third.

5 Epic Train Journeys For Your Next Railway Adventure