Title: Changi Airport Terminal 2 introduces fully automated baggage storage facility for early check-ins
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/changi-airport-terminal-2-baggage-storage-facility-fully-automated-3996306
--------------------------------------------------

Advertisement

New: You can now listen to articles.

This audio is generated by an AI tool.

19 Dec 2023 06:03PM (Updated: 20 Dec 2023 03:18PM)

Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.

Read a summary of this article on FAST.

Get bite-sized news via a new

cards interface. Give it a try.

Click here to return to FAST Tap here to return to FAST

FAST

SINGAPORE: You're at least three hours early for your flight at Changi Airport and have dropped off your luggage at the early check-in lounge.

The bag then rolls into a storage facility with a complex network of conveyor belts, to be screened and sorted. This is now a fully automated process at the revamped early baggage storage facility at Terminal 2, invisible to passengers but vital to keep the aviation hub running smoothly.

CNA took a behind-the-scenes look at the facility, which was rolled out as part of recently completed upgrading works at Terminal 2.

The new system uses “automated cranes” that place incoming bags in storage slots, said Changi Airport Group on Tuesday (Dec 19). This makes the process more efficient and reduces the chance of human error.

When a flight eventually “opens” less than three hours before its scheduled departure, these cranes automatically retrieve the early bags and send them to the flight’s departure carousel.

The bags are then picked up by ground handlers and brought to the plane.

The automated crane system also maximises the storage facility's capacity, as bags can be stored in any available compartment rather than a specific area or lane based on timeslot.

Thirty-six airlines at Changi Airport offer early check-in options for passengers between three and 48 hours before their flight, depending on the airline.

With the recovery in post-pandemic travel, baggage handling systems across Changi Airport have similarly seen an increase in luggage meant for flights that are departing more than three hours later.

In 2022, the airport handled 3.8 million early bags. This year, the figure has reached 5.6 million as of early December.

In October, more than 33,000 passengers used Jewel Changi Airport’s early check-in lounge, a five-fold increase from January.

What happens to your check-in bags?

When you check in at any of Changi Airport’s four terminals or Jewel Changi Airport’s early check-in lounge, your bags are tagged with a barcode.

This tag indicates the flight it is bound for, its destination airport and a unique identification number.

Your bags then enter the terminal’s baggage handling system. Here, the bags are sent for security screening. Once cleared, they’re sorted into their “destination” via the tags.

Most bags are for flights departing within three hours and therefore don't qualify as early baggage. These are sorted directly into their respective departure carousels, ready to be brought to the plane.

If you’re catching a connecting flight in a different terminal, your bags will be taken to that terminal via the airport’s inter-terminal transfer baggage system. This system connects Terminals 1, 2 and 3, while Terminal 4 uses a manual baggage transfer service.

Collapse Expand

“NO LONGER A NEED FOR HUMAN INTERVENTION”

With the addition of the latest facility at T2, all Changi Airport terminals now have fully automated early baggage storage facilities.

Before the upgrade, Terminal 2’s early baggage storage facility was semi-automated. Bags had to be manually moved in and out of storage by workers, who can now be redeployed to other tasks.

“With the upgrade to full automation, there is no longer a need for this human intervention,” said Changi Airport Group's executive vice president of engineering and development Koh Ming Sue.

“As other innovations in airport baggage management systems emerge, we will study them to see if they can similarly be harnessed to improve the way we work. Such continuous enhancement enables us to handle greater volumes of baggage, especially as air travel continues to recover.”

Mr Koh called Terminal 2's early baggage storage facility a “clear example” of how Changi Airport is tapping technology to make processes more efficient.

In August, the airport rolled out its first fully automated passenger loading bridge, aimed at ensuring the docking process is "consistently completed" in less than two minutes.

Source: CNA/gy(gs)

Sign up for our newsletters

Get our pick of top stories and thought-provoking articles in your inbox

Get the CNA app

Stay updated with notifications for breaking news and our best stories

Get WhatsApp alerts

Join our channel for the top reads for the day on your preferred chat app

Advertisement

Also worth reading

Content is loading...

Advertisement

Get bite-sized news via a new

cards interface. Give it a try.

Click here to return to FAST Tap here to return to FAST

FAST