Title: World's 10 five-star airlines named by the 'Oscars of the aviation industry'
Source: Dailymail.com
URL: https://www.dailymail.com/travel/article-15827153/World-five-star-airlines-Oscars-aviation-industry.html
--------------------------------------------------

Five-star hotels conjure up images of flawless service, immaculate rooms, impressive facilities and fine-dining experiences.

But what about five-star planes?

Skytrax - often dubbed the 'Oscars of the aviation industry' - has dished out a five-star rating to 10 elite airlines.

The accolade marks these as some of the best in the world.

The highly coveted rating recognises airlines providing very high standards, alongside consistent and excellent staff service across both the airport and onboard environments.

Here's a full rundown of the airlines boasting the impressive rating...

ANA All Nippon Airways

ANA All Nippon Airways is a Japanese airline based in Tokyo.

It was given the rating for the 13th consecutive year.

It boasts superior cleanliness, exceptional in-flight dining featuring carefully curated Japanese cuisine and premium sake, alongside high-quality bedding and loungewear.

Consistently high service quality delivered by all staff - from the lounges to airport and onboard the aircraft - received acclaim.

Asiana Airlines

Next to be handed a five-star airline rating is Seoul-based Asiana Airlines.

Unfortunately, the airline has been affected by the ongoing Iran war and subsequent jet fuel crisis.

Based in South Korea, Asiana Airlines has reportedly slashed 22 flights between April and July, according to Liverpool Echo.

Plus, the carrier is set to be taken over by Korean Air this December.

Cathay Pacific Airways

Cathay Pacific Airways, the flag carrier of Hong Kong, is known for the quality of its airport and onboard staff service.

Highlights include its staff assistance on arrival, transfer service assistance, the ambience and exclusivity of its first-class lounge and the shower and washroom facilities.

But it has been impacted by recent conflict in the Middle East and the jet fuel crisis.

Cathay Pacific said it would cut some of its flights from mid-May until the end of June. This would mean around two per cent of its scheduled passenger flights will be impacted.

EVA Air

For the ninth year in a row, Taiwan-based EVA Air has been labelled 'five-star'.

Skytrax said: 'EVA Air rates very highly for the quality, efficiency and consistency of staff service, both onboard flights and at their home base of Taipei Taoyuan Airport.

'The seating, amenity and food and beverage standards across all three onboard cabins are very good, with EVA Air rightly attributed as the pioneer of Premium Economy class back in 1992.'

Hainan Airlines

Chinese airline Hainan Airlines is next up on the list, hailed for its service and facilities.

Skytrax said: 'A long-standing five-star rated airline, Hainan Airlines continues to offer excellent product and service standards in Business and Economy Class. In-flight dining remains very good for long-haul and regional flight sectors, and this is well complemented by consistent and attentive service.

'Airport service standards are efficient, and HNA branded lounges are available at some key hubs and offer an elevated experience.'

Japan Airlines

Food and drink, along with the cabin and ground staff, are part of why Japan Airlines also has a five-star rating.

This prestigious accolade was granted for the ninth consecutive year.

First and Business Class cabins with industry-leading comfort, superior dining options and exceptional hospitality all contributed to the win.

Korean Air

Korean Air, the flag carrier of South Korea, has also been awarded the prestigious title.

Skytrax said: 'A key determinant in awarding the five-star Airline Certification to Korean Air is the high level of quality consistency delivered to customers. Korean Air cabin crew are hard-working and professional, and Economy class standards are particularly commendable.

'An excellent onboard product across First, Business and Economy class, which combines with very efficient and sincere staff service.'

Qatar Airways

Next up is Qatar Airways, known for its quality service and high-end offerings.

It was also one of the first ever airlines to be awarded the five-star rating.

Skytrax said: 'Qatar Airways maintains its global leadership for delivering the highest standards of product and service to customers.

'Qatar Airways operates from the five-star hub of Hamad International Airport in Doha.'

Singapore Airlines

It's not just the glamorous Business and First class cabins that give Singapore Airlines its five-star rating - the quality of Economy is great, too.

Skytrax said: 'Singapore Airlines delivers superlative standards of product and service on long-haul and regional flights, and continues to innovate and define the air travel experience.'

Singapore Changi Airport has also won many awards for excellence in the past, such as Skytrax' World's Best Airport.

STARLUX Airlines

Rounding out the list is Taiwanese airline STARLUX Airlines.

Having only been running flights since 2020, it has gained the impressive status in just a short time.

Its modern fleet of A321neo, A330neo, and A350-900 aircraft is especially well regarded.