Title: Do Not Bring Any Books To Korea?
Source: Loyaltylobby.com
URL: https://loyaltylobby.com/2025/12/15/do-not-bring-any-books-to-korea/
--------------------------------------------------

A LoyaltyLobby reader sent us a note about what the President of South Korea had ordered on Friday to ensure that cash in excess of $10K is not smuggled through airports hidden within books.

The president has apparently ordered that all the books going through the airport be hand-checked to ensure that no $100 or higher euro bills are put between pages (how crazy is this?

Here’s a note from the reader:

This is a really absurd piece of news — last Friday, South Korean President Lee Jae-myung reportedly ordered a complete inspection of all books during airport security checks.

Mr. Lee claims that there have been cases of people hiding cash between the pages of books to smuggle foreign currency out of the country.

Since this directive came directly from the President, it looks like this will actually happen. But if it does, Incheon Airport, which is already overcrowded, could end up in complete chaos.

Anyway, for those traveling to Korea… whatever you do, **don’t bring any books!**

Excerpt from Maeil Newspaper (machine translation):

President Lee Jae-myung ordered a full investigation at Incheon International Airport on the 12th, saying, “Go through all the books.”

President Lee made the order in response to a report by Lee Hak-jae, president of Incheon International Airport Corporation, that a large amount of cash in a book cannot be found even if it is smuggled out of the country at the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport held at the Sejong Convention Center.

Conclusion

There must be easier ways to smuggle cash in excess of $10K than having $100 notes inside a book as bookmarks.

The amount of cash or cash-equivalent instruments that need to be reported at customs varies widely by country, usually starting at $10K, and some countries theoretically don’t allow you to leave with any or very little.

I genuinely doubt that the South Korean customs can manually inspect every single book that goes through an airport in the country, and it must be really difficult to hide $10K inside a book.