Title: Delhi Airport looks to become the largest transit hub in Asia
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/delhi-airport-looks-to-become-the-largest-transit-hub-in-asia/articleshow/120211099.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Delhi Airport has emerged as a leading international hub, surpassing Changi in connectivity to North America and Europe with over 90 weekly flights. Aided by a Rs 9,000 crore expansion, the airport is enhancing its infrastructure and leveraging technology to streamline passenger processing.

Delhi airport is aiming to evolve into a global aviation hub, having become the most connected aerodrome between Southeast Asia and North America with more than 90 weekly flights, a senior official said. The airport currently has direct flights to 70 international destinations including nine in North America and 18 in Europe.

“The government has positioned Delhi to be a major international hub, and we are on the right path to become a global gateway,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL)—the GMR group-owned company which runs the airport.

Hub airports aggregate passenger demand from an entire region, offering multiple direct flights to major cities across the world.

Speaking to reporters on Friday, Jaipuriar said over the last few months, Delhi has surpassed Changi Airport in Singapore in terms of connectivity with North America and Europe.

“There are 280 weekly flights from Delhi to Europe and North America. Compared to this. This is more than Changi which is a global gateway. So, we have already surpassed some of the better-known international hubs,” he said.

Live Events

India is framing a national policy to transform its airports into major international hubs offering single-point international connectivity to multiple destinations. Currently, nearly 85% of the connecting traffic from India travelling to Europe, North America and Australia move through non-Indian airport hubs like those in the Middle East.

Jaipuriar said that unlike airports in the Gulf which depend entirely on international traffic, Delhi’s case is different as it has a large flow of domestic traffic.

“We are targeting to be a global gateway where there is direct connectivity with more countries,” he said.

Under a Rs 9,000 crore expansion project, the airport has nearly doubled its international transfer area among other improvements besides adding immigration counters to handle the greater flow of international traffic.

The facility has also heavily relied on technology like setting up kiosks to let international passengers travelling to India submit their biometrics instead of at immigration counters. “This has made the immigration process faster and we are planning to set up more kiosks now,” Jaipuruar said.

The government is also looking to relax immigration and cargo screening rules to make airports like Delhi more competitive against global hubs.

For instance, currently, passengers travelling from Bengaluru to San Francisco with a layover at Delhi need to do immigration at Delhi. Similarly, passengers travelling from San Francisco to Bengaluru via Delhi, have to complete their customs and immigration at the Delhi airport, following it up with check-in formalities for the next leg of journey to Bengaluru.

Such processes consume a lot of time, forcing airlines to keep long connection times, impacting operational efficiency. It is also impacts the connecting experience for domestic passengers moving to international flights. The government is currently considering a proposal to allow international travellers to do these formalities at only their first or final destinations.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless