Title: Bali Flights Canceled as Indonesia's Mount Lewotobi Volcano Erupts
Source: Newsweek
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/bali-mount-lewotobi-volcano-flights-canceled-airlines-1984983
--------------------------------------------------

International flights to and from Bali were grounded on Wednesday following a powerful eruption from Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki, located on the remote island of Flores, Indonesia.

The eruption has left thousands of travelers stranded at airports in Bali, Australia, and other nearby regions while airlines struggle to manage the massive ash cloud that now blankets the skies in Flores' East Nusa Tenggara province, around 500 miles east of Indonesia's most popular tourist island.

Nine people are dead and dozens of others injured from the initial blast on Nov. 4.

Read More on World

Situated in the "Ring of Fire"—an area across the Pacific Ocean known for increased volcanic and seismic activity—Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki is one of Indonesia's 120 active volcanoes.

It has continued to erupt sporadically over several days, sending towering plumes of ash more than five miles into the atmosphere, the Center for Volcanology and Geological Disaster Mitigation said in a statement.

Cancellations have affected major carriers, including Jetstar, Virgin Australia, and Air New Zealand.

How Many Times Has Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki Erupted?

The 5,197-foot volcano shot up ash at least 17 times on Tuesday alone.

Since then, authorities have expanded the evacuation and danger zone as volcanic materials, including smoldering rocks, lava, and hot, thumb-size fragments of gravel and ash, were thrown up into the atmosphere.

Tourists are despairing over a lack of provisions from their air travel providers.

"The airline did not provide accommodation, leaving us stranded at this airport," said Charlie Austin from Perth, Australia, who was on vacation in Bali with his family.

Another Australian traveler, Issabella Butler, managed to find an alternative flight to escape the situation but expressed concerns about others who may still be waiting for an exit.

"The important thing is that we have to be able to get out of here," she said.

Increasing Number of Asia-Australia Flight Cancellations

Over the last four days, at least 84 flights—48 arriving and 36 departing—have been canceled, with dozens more potentially affected if the eruption continues.

Airport general manager Ahmad Syaugi Shahab said that airlines from Singapore, Hong Kong, Qatar, India and Malaysia were all affected Wednesday. He said for these cancellations, airlines were offering travelers a refund, or to reschedule or reroute.

Australian airline Jetstar's website warned that flights would be suspended until at least Thursday due to safety concerns related to volcanic ash.

"It is currently not safe to operate the route," the airline said in a statement.

Virgin Australia also canceled 10 services to and from Bali on Wednesday, while Qantas reported delays for three flights. Air New Zealand canceled a flight to Bali and a planned return to Auckland, opting instead to monitor conditions before rescheduling passengers. Korean Air similarly canceled flights from South Korea to Bali, redirecting two flights back to Incheon International Airport mid-route on Tuesday.

Risks to Residents in Flores

Mount Lewotobi Laki-Laki's persistence also poses risks beyond air travel.

Its eruptions have been documented since November 2023, with a experts observing a more aggressive escalation taking place at the beginning of this year.