Title: Review: Qantas First Lounge Singapore (SIN)
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/qantas-first-lounge-singapore-review/
--------------------------------------------------

The Qantas First Lounge in Singapore is a superlative oneworld emerald lounge, offering sumptuous food and drink in a comfortable and tastefully decorated space.

Qantas First Lounge Singapore Review (SIN)

I spent a couple of hours here ahead of my flight to Kuala Lumpur and walked away with my stomach very content. This lounge focuses on the dining experience.

Hours + Location + Access

You’ll find the lounge in Singapore Changi Terminal 1, just to the right and upstairs after immigration. The lounge is open daily from 3:00 pm until 11:00 pm.

Access is granted to passengers traveling same-day in first class on Qantas or another oneworld carrier as well as oneworld Emerald status members traveling same-day on a oneworld carrier in any class of service.

Seating

As you enter the lounge, you will find a seating area with a mix of chairs and couches. All have a table or end table nearby along with a power outlet.

There are a couple of desks with a printer in between.

Food + Drink

As I mentioned above, this lounge is all about the dining experience. Most of the lounge is designated for dining with booths and tables and like the Qantas First lounge in Sydney and Los Angeles, dining is a la carte style.

Buckle up for a feast…and I was hungry after only having coffee earlier.

After taking a seat, a menu was presented listing the food and beverage options available.

I was also presented with a refreshing cold towel on a gold tray.

The bar includes cocktails, beer, wine, Champagne (Duval-Leory Brut, Joseph Perrier Brut, Taittinger Brut Reserve, and Taittinger Prestige Rose), and my favorite: barista-made coffee service with coffee from Australian company Vittoria.

I began dinner with a Calamansi Mojito, which served as a refreshing aperitivo.

First, I ordered a chicken breast with sweet potato, broccolini, and burnt butter hazelnuts…a great combo..with a side salad. A lovely first course.

Then I ordered barramundi with polenta, basil, and zucchini sauce…and a side of chips (French Fries).

Another delicious dish!

I rounded out my meal with a bowl of berries (per request), chocolate hazelnut cake with caramel topped in vanilla ice cream, and a flat white.

Simply a fabulous meal (though I still preferred my lamb in the Qatar lounge).

During my stay, I had one more coffee (a cortado)…the coffee was wonderful.

For guests who may not have wanted to sit down to dine, there was a small self-serve area with fruit and nuts (plus soft drinks and water).

Restrooms + Showers

Restroom facilities (private rooms) and shower suites are available, both with amenities from LaGaia Unedited (LUE).

Service

I must commend the lounge staff for the excellent service while here. The dining staff was charming and attentive. No complaints at all. Even when it got busy, each guest was carefully managed. That’s a big deal in distinguishing a great lounge from a mediocre one.

CONCLUSION