Title: It’s Official: Delta Is Launching Flights Between Salt Lake City and Seoul In June 2025
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/its-official-delta-is-launching-flights-between-salt-lake-city-and-seoul-in-june-2025/
--------------------------------------------------

1.9K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Delta Air Lines officially announced today that Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) will see new flights to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) starting on June 12th. This will be the first transpacific route the airport will serve in more than a decade.

The route will be operated with Airbus A350-900 aircraft. These offer 32 Delta One® (Delta’s best enclosed suite product is on this aircraft type), 48 Delta Premium Select, 36 Comfort+, and 190 Main Cabin seats. Delta currently flies to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL), Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW), Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport (MSP), and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA). Delta and its SkyTeam partner, Korean Air, serve 14 US cities total.

Joe Esposito, Delta’s Senior Vice President – Network Planning, said:

The launch of Salt Lake City to Seoul service offers customers convenient access to Delta’s growing global network and ensures that virtually all U.S. demand is connected to Seoul via nonstop or one-stop service. As Salt Lake City continues to grow as a vital Delta hub, our strong joint venture with Korean Air allows us to offer unmatched connectivity between the U.S. and Asia, leveraging strong hubs on both sides. This ensures that customers, including those in the interior U.S., have access not just to Seoul but to key destinations across Asia.”

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.