Title: YOTEL to Open First Hotel in Japan This December
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/announcement/41011866.html
--------------------------------------------------

Global hotel brand YOTEL will open YOTEL Tokyo Ginza for its first guests on 16 December 2024. The new-build hotel holds a prime position in central Ginza, the city's most popular dining and shopping destination, and is located just a fifteen-minute walk from Tokyo station - a major transport hub with links to cities across Japan via the Shinkansen (bullet train) lines and Narita International Airport.

YOTEL Tokyo Ginza will offer a range of room options to meet the varying needs of its guests, including double, twin, bunk triple and family connected options. Rooms will feature YOTEL signatures such as SmartBeds™, super-fast WiFi, wireless charging and rain showers with Urban Jungle amenities. Floor to ceiling windows will immerse guests in the city, with views of Tokyo Tower, Ginza, and the Shinkansen snaking its way through Tokyo.

On the ground floor, the bar and restaurant Komyuniti will offer an all-day dining concept, serving simple and fresh international fare, as well as wine, craft local beer, sake and soju. From breakfast through to after-dinner drinks, Komyuniti will provide a welcoming space for hotel guests to work and socialise, and for locals to grab a bite to eat or a drink. Other hotel facilities include a striking Mission Control (reception area) with three self-service stations, a high-spec 24/7 gym available exclusively for hotel guests, and robot crew, who will be on hand to deliver water and extra towels to any room.

The hotel's public spaces draw inspiration from the vibrant streets and people of Ginza, featuring clean lines, warm wood tones, and soft, understated colours. Local artist Mio Fukukawa has been commissioned to create bespoke artworks inspired by Ginza's street scene, adding an authentic, local touch to the property.

This launch is YOTEL's third hotel in Asia, following the opening of YOTEL Singapore in 2017 and YOTELAIR Singapore Changi Airport in 2019, and is the brand's first venture into Japan.