Title: AIr Premia grows its fleet to six widebody aircraft
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2024/12/24/air-premia-grows-its-fleet-to-six-widebody-aircraft/
--------------------------------------------------

South Korean carrier Air Premia is continuing to grow, adding a sixth Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner to its fleet.

Air Premia CEO Kim Jae-hyun (seventh from the left) and other executives and employees are taking a commemorative photo, as the six Boeing 787-9 for the airline is unveiled at Incheon International Airport – Image, Air Premia.

Air Premia has chosen to stick to the Boeing 787-9 for its fleet. It is the latest aircraft to join the fleet 1 year and 7 months since the introduction of the 5th aircraft.

With the aircraft in the hands of Air Premia, it is due to go for an internal refit, comprising of completing seat cover replacement and interior improvements.

In terms of internal configuration, the Boeing 787-9 will be fitted with 344 seats, including 35 46-inch premium economy seats and 309 31-inch economy seats. The 31-inch pitch economy class seat will be adjusted to 33 inches in their Hybrid Service Carrier model.

Once these changes are complete and have been passed by the various agencies, Air Premia will utilise this new aircraft on its North American routes, including its Seoul-Incheon – Newark International Airport route.

Air Premia currently operates five regular flights to Los Angeles, New York (Newark), San Francisco, Tokyo-Narita Narita, and Bangkok Suvarnabhumi

In Quotes

An Air Premia official said,

“In the airline industry, expanding the fleet is key to business expansion,”

“We will operate a balanced route portfolio to create consumer convenience and profitability.”

Continuing Growth

Air Premia plans to introduce a total of three aircraft next year, bringing its fleet to a total of nine aircraft by the end of 2025. With this, it will be able to continue to expand (in the wake of the Korean Airlines/Asiana Airlines Merger), where four aircraft have been assigned from Korean Air as part of the competition resolutions.

Next up on the list for the airline will be further routes to the USA – including Honolulu and Seattle, following the new routes to Da Nang (Vietnam) and Hong Kong.

For Air Premia, it’s a chance to grow and continue marketing to medium to long-haul destinations that can fill 344 seats aboard a 787-9. With more aircraftt on the way, the airline will have to work on more routes to connect Seoul to the Korean diaspora, as well as drive the important business and tourism traffic streams.

Welcome to Economy Class and Beyond. Your no-nonsense guide to network news, honest reviews, in-depth coverage, unique research, as well as the humour and madness I only know how to deliver.

Our Social Media pool has expanded. You can find us across most networks as @economybeyond on BlueSky, Threads, Mastodon and Instagram!

Also, remember that we are part of the BoardingArea community, bringing you the latest frequent flyer news from around the world.