Title: New bus service connects airport to 500 hotels
Source: Bangkok Post
URL: https://www.bangkokpost.com/life/travel/2643037/new-bus-service-connects-airport-to-500-hotels
--------------------------------------------------

Four major partners in Thailand's tourism and transportation industry have joined forces for the launch of the Bua Airport Express, a bus service connecting Suvarnabhumi airport to over 500 hotels in Bangkok. This service aims to provide convenient and cost-effective travel options for just 180 baht per trip, covering three routes across the city: Sathon-Mahanakon Tower-MBK Center; Yaowarat-Chinatown-Saochingcha; and Asok-Sukhumvit-EmQuartier-Thong Lor, including various tourist attractions and shopping malls.

Bua Airport Express. Bua Airport Express

The Bua Airport Express is now operational through the collaboration of four major players in Thailand's tourism and transportation sectors: Bualuang Travel and Service, Chao Phraya Tourist Boat, Elephant Go Go and First Transport. The service allows passengers to carry up to two pieces of luggage onboard and buses have capacities of 31 and 44 seats.

The Bua Airport Express service is available via counters located on the 1st floor of Suvarnabhumi airport, near Exit Gates 7 and 8, from 7am to 7pm daily. More information about routes and schedules can be found on the website elephantairportexpress.com or by calling 069-771-1234.

Agoda survey reveals top flight grievances

Digital travel platform Agoda recently unveiled Agoda's Travel Bugbears Survey 2023 which delves into the realm of in-flight annoyances, highlighting that even the smoothest flight can have its bumps.

The survey, covering 10 markets across Asia, found discourteous invasion of personal space as the number one pet peeve for fliers. People from South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan are most offended by personal space invasion, be it the war on arm-rest territory or bodily noises and unpleasant smells from uncovered feet.

Unsurprisingly, flight delays rank high, coming in second on the list of passengers' grievances across the Asia Pacific. The patience of travellers from the Philippines especially reaches a tipping point when it comes to flight delays as they rank it their top bugbear, a sentiment echoed by travellers from Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam.

Ranking as the third biggest in-flight annoyance across the region is the presence of loud passengers, like overly chatty seatmates, couples airing out their dirty laundry in public, or raucous groups broadcasting their music or games across the entire flight. Australians and Malaysians are least sensitive to noise while Taiwan and South Korean travellers appreciate more peaceful flying experiences. Japanese, too, appreciate the peace and quiet, but also are the only market that expresses an intolerance for disruptive passengers who are rude to cabin crew as their top grievance.

The OWO ready to add flair to Whitehall

On Sept 29, The OWO is set to debut in the heart of Whitehall with the opening of new restaurants and bars, the first hotel in the UK for Raffles Hotels & Resorts -- Raffles London at The OWO, 85 Raffles Residences, The Guerlain Spa and Pillar Wellbeing.

Raffles London features 120 guest rooms and suites, signature dining experiences by chef Mauro Colagreco, entertainment spaces including a grand ballroom, and an extensive spa in partnership with Guerlain and Pillar. The OWO will also feature 85 Residences by Raffles and is set to be a new culinary district for London, with the debut of nine restaurants and three bars, including a spectacular rooftop with panoramic views across St James's Park, The Mall and onto Buckingham Palace.

Visit theowo.london or email TheOWO@perowneinternational.com.

Novotel to open a new property in Singapore

Accor has recently signed an agreement with Worldwide Hotels Group, the largest hotel operator in Singapore in terms of room number and Accor's long-standing partner, for a new Novotel hotel in Singapore. Situated in the heart of the historic Little India, the 543-key Novotel Singapore on Kitchener Road is set to welcome guests starting from Nov 1.

Novotel Singapore on Kitchener Road will be rebranded from Parkroyal on Kitchener Road following its acquisition in July this year by Worldwide Hotels Group. The deal represents the largest ever single-asset hotel transaction in Singapore and the second largest in Asia Pacific so far this year. The rebranding starts after the acquisition is completed by Oct 31.

Novotel Singapore on Kitchener Road is conveniently situated in Little India, a vibrant retail and residential area, near two major shopping malls, City Square Mall and Mustafa Centre. The hotel is just a five-minute walk from the Farrer Park MRT station, a 10-minute drive from the central business district, and a 20-minute drive from Changi Airport.