Title: RoK’s Jeju Air opens Incheon – Da Lat service
Source: Vietnamplus.vn
URL: https://en.vietnamplus.vn/roks-jeju-air-opens-incheon-da-lat-service/270679.vnp
--------------------------------------------------

Jeju Air, the Republic of Korea’s biggest low-cost carrier, will add the Incheon – Da Lat route to its flight network to Vietnam from December 20. (Photo: VNA)

Seoul (VNA) – Jeju Air, the Republic of Korea’s biggest low-costcarrier, will add the Incheon – Da Lat route to its flight network to Vietnamfrom December 20, with seven round trips a week.

In its announcement on November 3, the airline said the flight will depart fromIncheon at 22:20, and arrive in Da Lat at 01:30 (local time). The return legfrom Da Lat will depart at 2:30 and land at Incheon airport at 9:30 the sameday.

When this new route commences, Jeju Air will be operating a total of seven to six Vietnamese cities. With flights connecting Incheon and Da Nang,Nha Trang, Phu Quoc, Hanoi, and Ho Chi Minh, and Busan and Danang, Jeju Air holds the leading position among the RoK's airlines in terms of the number ofroutes to the Southeast Asian country.

To celebrate the launch of the new route, Jeju Air is offeringdiscounted flight tickets from 10:00 on November 7 to 17:00 on November 21 forflights between December 20, 2023 and March 30, 2024.

The Incheon-Dalat route is set to enhance convenience and improve accessibilityfor travelers. With the added benefits of discounted fares and a wealth oftourist attractions, Vietnam’s enchanting city of Dalat is now more accessibleand enticing than ever before.

Bestowed with year-round cool climate, green pine forests, misty landscapes,and resplendent architectural gems dating back to the colonial era, the resorttown of Da Lat in the Central Highlands province of Lam Dong has been awell-known destination both at home and abroad./.

VNA

Related News

RoK’s Jeju Air to expand flights to Vietnam

06/02/2023 15:35

Jeju Air Co., the biggest low-cost carrier of the Republic of Korea, said on February 6 that it will resume many routes to Vietnam in April after three years of suspension due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Jeju island of RoK to be introduced in Quang Ninh

28/06/2023 18:12

An exhibition to introduce Jeju island of the Republic of Korea (RoK) - one of the World Natural Heritage Sites recognised by UNESCO, will take place in the northern coastal province of Quang Ninh from June 30 - July 7.