Title: How to fly Singapore Airlines business class from Europe to New York this summer for just 57K credit card points or miles
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/singapore-airlines-spontaneous-escapes-europe/
--------------------------------------------------

June 13, 2025

•

3 min read

How to fly Singapore Airlines business class to Europe this summer for less than 57K credit card points or miles

The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.

Singapore Airlines Spontaneous Escapes is offering 30% off select redemptions for travel in July, and it's a great way to fly one of the world's best airlines to Europe.

The award-winning airline operates a daily fifth-freedom flight from New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) to Frankfurt Airport (FRA) before continuing on to the airline's home at Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). You can fly all the way to Singapore or just book the transatlantic leg from JFK to FRA (or vice versa), if you wish.

This month, Spontaneous Escapes is offering 30% discounts on Singapore KrisFlyer redemptions when flying between New York and Frankfurt in July, as follows:

Economy for 17,500 miles (blackout period of July 1-3 for JFK to FRA)

Premium economy for 36,400 miles

Business class for 56,700 miles (blackout period of July 1-4 for JFK to FRA; July 1-3, 5-8, 10-15 and 20-21 for FRA to JFK)

You can book these flights online — just look for "Promo" pricing, which is 30% cheaper than the "Saver" pricing.

Related: Is Singapore Airlines premium economy worth it on the Airbus A350?

Daily Newsletter

Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter

Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts

Email address

Submitting...

By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.

How to earn Singapore KrisFlyer miles

Earning Singapore KrisFlyer miles is easy. The program is a 1:1 transfer partner of American Express Membership Rewards, Capital One, Citi ThankYou Rewards and Chase Ultimate Rewards.

Additionally, KrisFlyer is a 3:1 transfer partner of Marriott Bonvoy, offering 5,000 bonus miles for every 60,000 points transferred. This means 60,000 Marriott points are worth 25,000 Singapore miles.

Bottom line

Singapore Airlines might not be the first airline you consider when flying to or from Europe. Still, the unique fifth-freedom route between New York and Germany allows you to try this fantastic airline without traveling all the way to or from Singapore. It's hard to beat this price if you're traveling next month.

To take advantage of these Spontaneous Escapes discounts for travel between July 1 and 31, book by the end of this month.

Related reading:

Which Singapore Airlines business class is better? A380 vs. A350

How to book Singapore Airlines first-class suites with points and miles

Singapore Airlines opens beautiful refurbished first- and business-class lounges in London's Heathrow Airport

Behind the scenes with Singapore Airlines' wine experts as they choose the Champagnes that will be on board soon

Featured image by ZACH GRIFF/THE POINTS GUY

Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.