Title: Camera-Shy Chen Biyu Didn't Attend SA2025 Just To Get Her Top 10 Trophy From Chow Yun Fat, So Does She Love Him As Much As Andy Lau Now?
Source: 8days.sg
URL: https://www.8days.sg/entertainment/local/chen-biyu-chow-yun-fat-star-awards-2025-top-10-trophy-andy-lau-845236
--------------------------------------------------

No part of this story can be reproduced without permission from 8days.sg.

We can easily say our favourite moment from Star Awards 2025 was when Chow Yun Fat 'took back' the Top 10 Most Popular Female Artistes trophy from Chen Biyu after Guo Liang outed her for being an Andy Lau fan instead.

Did you know that was actually not Biyu's first encounter with Fat Gor that day?

The 58-year-old Love 972 The Breakfast Quartet host had an intimate, one-to-one interview with the Hong Kong film legend earlier that evening, an encounter she describes to 8days.sg as "nerve-racking" at first.

She's seen Fat Gor twice when he was in town previously to promote his movies, but only from afar. So it was the first time Biyu got to speak to Fat Gor up close, in person.

"He's one of the actors I really like. I was looking forward to it but nervous at the same time. I was told that [his team] were quite strict about the interview and there was a lot of homework to be done beforehand, so I started worrying if the interview would be too serious," she says.

She was also concerned that the short 10-minutes she had with him would make it difficult for them to warm up to each other.

Thankfully, Biyu's concerns were for nothing. Fat Gor immediately broke the ice when he asked her to take a selfie with him.

"We were told that you can't ask to take a picture with him, so I was prepared [to go home without a photo]. Yet he surprisingly initiated the photo, which helped to reduce the tension," she recalls.

We express our surprise that someone as experienced as Biyu would still get the pre-interview jitters.

"Of course I do. If I get to meet the person I want to interview the most — Lin Ching Hsia — I'd be nervous too."

It did help that Biyu is fluent in Cantonese and that was how she communicated with Fat Gor. She also says he now remembers her as "Ah Yoke" . 'Yoke' is how the 'Yu' in 'Biyu' is pronounced in Cantonese.

Just like how Fat Gor poked fun at Hong Ling's name during the show, he couldn't resist doing the same with Biyu.

"If you're patient and jog for 30 minutes every day, I believe you'll lose a lot 'yoke'," he said to Biyu after she told him she doesn't like to exercise.

For those who don't understand Cantonese, 'yoke' also means 'meat'.

"I thought he was so humourous, and we ended the interview on such a light-hearted note," she gushes.

Biyu was a no-show for the last two Star Awards despite getting into the Top 10 both times. So did she only attend the event this year because of Fat Gor?

"Actually, no. I was there because I had work to do. When I was first informed about the interview, I didn't know who I was going to be speaking to. I was just told to do this for our radio show," she says.

Biyu also had no clue what award Fat Gor was going to present.

"Lau Ching Wan was there as well. I only figured Fat Gor would be presenting the Top 10 after Ching Wan gave out Best Actress and Best Actor. But I also wasn't thinking if I would win," she adds.

So what went through her mind when Guo Liang told Fat Gor her idol is actually Andy Lau.

"(Laughs) It's not a big deal. I don't think [Fat Gor] would take it to heart either," she chuckles. She tells us she didn't know what was happening until everyone started laughing 'cos she "couldn't really hear".

Has Fat Gor replaced Andy in Biyu's heart after that night?

"They're very different (laughs)," she says. "Andy Lau really likes Fat Gor too and sees him as a role model, so I love them both."

Another question we've been dying to ask Biyu: Why didn't she turn up for the Awards the last two years?

"I'm just not used to it," she says, adding that she would "hide whenever there's a camera".

"I'm glad we didn't have to film a video for my interview with Fat Gor. If we had to, I would let the camera focus on him and maybe only show my side view."

In case you forgot, this wasn't the first time Biyu went on stage to recieve an award at the Star Awards.