Title: Prince William Astonished By Jewel Changi Airport
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/prince-william-jewel-changi-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

Prince William is in Singapore this week on official business, but stopped to take in the Rain Vortex at Jewel Changi Airport, expressing amazement and astonishment at the word’s tallest indoor waterfall.

Prince William Visits Jewel Changi Airport

The 41-year-old heir to the British throne is in Singapore this week to present the annual Earthshot Prize that recognizes innovation in tackling environmental challenges and for his United For Wildlife program, which works to “protect our natural world from the international criminal gangs intent on plundering it.”

William, traveling solo, blamed the exams of his eldest son George, 10, who is third in line to the British throne, for why Catherine, Princess of Wales, did not join him.

“Catherine is very sorry she can’t be here. She is helping George through his first set of major exams.”

Upon arriving at Singapore Changi Airport, the Prince of Wales was escorted to Jewel Changi Airport, then shown both the Shiseido Forest Valley and HSBC Rain Vortex (apparently everything is branded these days…)

As he looked up with amazement, William remarked, “It’s enormous.”

Ms Sim Ann, Senior Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and National Development, accompanied him on the tour and then helped navigate through crowds which had gathered to greet him.

The Strait Times reports that one man lined up who had snapped photos of Princess Diana while on a trip to London in 1992. He presented those to William, to which the Price of Wales gratefully responded, “It’s for me? Thank you very much.”

There is no doubt that Jewel and particularly the Rain Vortex are an impressive site. It understandable why William was amazed, especially when compared to Heathrow Terminal 5…

As an aside, Prince William reportedly flew on BA11 from London Heathrow (LHR) to Singapore, arriving 26 minutes behind schedule at 4:21 PM. It is not clear if he flew first class.