Title: ‘World’s best airport’ reveals bizarre new additions after 3 year renovation
Source: LADbible
URL: https://www.ladbible.com/news/world-news/changi-airport-singapore-renovation-862888-20231115
--------------------------------------------------

The 'world's best airport' has revealed bizarre new additions to its refurbished terminal building.

When it comes to booking a holiday, it’s likely you're more focused on the destination rather than which airport you’re likely to travel via. That’s despite some UK airports being award winning destinations!

But one airport with a newly expanded terminal building is aiming to make it an attraction in its own right.

Sadly, many will be disappointed (and perhaps not surprised) to learn that this isn't a UK airport.

If you find yourself in the departure hall of this swanky new terminal building, you can be kept entertained - and most definitely left in awe - by a huge digital waterfall.

Dubbed The Wonderfall, the mesmerising display aims to reflect the wonder of a waterfall cascading over megalithic boulders.

The Wonderfall blends seamlessly into the departure hall and is said to offer onlookers an equally immersive experience from a variety of viewpoints within the terminal.

Planes are also viewable through the floor-to-ceiling windows, giving passengers the chance to experience the hustle and bustle on the ground.

These, ladies and gentlemen, are all features of Terminal 2 of Singapore's Changi Airport.

It was crowned the World’s Best Airport for 2023 at the Skytrax World Airport Awards, and following three and a half years of engineering work, its Terminal 2 building has been expanded.

Lush green columns adorned with a diverse array of plants contribute to creating a serene and soothing atmosphere. This is done with the aim of creating tranquillity and relaxation for passengers and visitors alike.

The design is guided by this nature-inspired theme, with key touch points being transformed within the terminal. Ceiling designs to wall finishes mimic natural landforms, and elements of nature are seamlessly incorporated throughout the terminal.

There's also a new garden inside the departure transit area, labelled Dreamscape. This exhibits an array of exotic plants underneath a ‘digital sky’ that changes its hues depending on the time of day.

Food wise, there is the Gourmet Garden offering local cuisine from Singapore. Wee Nam Kee Chicken Rice is where diners will be able to savour Singapore’s iconic chicken rice, while at The Hainan Story bakery and coffee & toast kiosk, freshly made pastries and Kopi Gu You (butter coffee) will satisfy those looking for a taste of Singapore’s culinary heritage.

More local favourites are also available at CRAVE Nasi Lemak, which sells the popular coconut rice dish paired with various sides.

There is also Old Chang Kee, known for its famous curry puffs and other finger food, as well as food options from around the world, such as the infamous Hard Rock Cafe.

The toilets at the airport have been refurbished, too, which is definitely a win for everyone! And not to mention a playground area for children to enjoy, which I'm sure many parents traveling with little ones will appreciate.

These recent changes should see more efficient travel for passage too - with a central common-use Fast and Seamless Travel (FAST) zone and the number of automated check-in kiosks and bag drop machines have almost doubled.

The immigration halls have been expanded to support additional automated immigration lanes allowing more passengers to be served at any time.

There are also Special Assistance Lanes for persons with disabilities and young children at both arrival and departure immigration. A new early baggage storage system has also been installed that is fully automated with the capacity to handle up to 2,400 bags.

Don't mind me, just booking a one-way flight to Changi Airport now...