Title: Salt Lake City Will Get Its First Transpacific Flight In Over A Decade Next Year
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/salt-lake-city-will-get-its-first-transpacific-flight-in-over-a-decade-next-year/
--------------------------------------------------

1.5K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) will see new flights to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) next year. Delta Air Lines is adding this route and it’s the first transpacific route the airport will serve in more than a decade.

Airline watchdog, @JonNYC, shared a slide from an internal Delta presentation that breaks the news. It’s interesting to note that Delta calls out Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) as its fastest growing hub and looks to increase capacity at the airport by 7% in the next year. Delta currently offers three transatlantic flights from the airport. These include Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS), London Heathrow Airport (LHR), and Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG). These are the hubs of KLM, Virgin Atlantic, and Air France, respectively. All three make sense for Delta and the flight to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) will see connectivity from Delta’s other SkyTeam and joint venture partner: Korean Air.

Anthony’s Take: Route frequency and aircraft type have not yet been revealed. I will provide an update when more details are released.

(Featured Image Credit: Delta Air Lines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.