Title: SEVENTEEN’s Mingyu Gets Mobbed By Fans In Paris
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/seventeen-mingyu-paris-airport-mobbed-fans/
--------------------------------------------------

SEVENTEEN’s Mingyu recently made a trip overseas to Paris. He left to participate in Paris Fashion Week. His overwhelming popularity made things hard for him, as he was mobbed almost immediately at the airport.

As he exited security, he was picked up by security detail and his manager. Mingyu moved to take the public lift, but was crowded by fans. He kindly paused to give autographs, which only made the situation worse.

the situation got crazy when mingyu started giving his sign :( he still gave his sign and took the letters even though he was being mobbed, someone fell and mingyu helped her pic.twitter.com/Gt4nz1qLYJ i know everyone is excited but still this is at the airport also think about ur…

The situation quickly got out of hand and people were falling over. Mingyu generously helped up a fallen fan, earning praise for staying kind even in the overwhelming situation.

mingyu picked up someone who fell infront of him??? uhm pls stop mobbing? pic.twitter.com/wOrgD39eLh

According to fans who were present, Mingyu had not only helped a fan up, but he also helped to pick up items dropped by fans. He also tried to tell the fans to back up, although it did not work. Mingyu finally was able to leave the area with the help of his security team.

The situation could have been hugely dangerous for the star. CARATS are urging fans in Paris to provide Mingyu with space and privacy.

even mingyu got mobbed at the airport like … what happened to fan etiquette and behaving normally like 😭

SEVENTEEN
			
				
		Toxic Masculininty Or Admiration? SEVENTEEN Mingyu’s Phone Wallpaper Leaves Netizens Up In Arms

97-Liners BTS Jungkook And SEVENTEEN Mingyu’s Interaction Sparks Controversy At Calvin Klein Event

SEVENTEEN Dino Addresses His “Alter Ego” Solo Debut Amid Backlash, And His Response Sets Off Fans

Beloved SEVENTEEN Member’s Solo Debut Faces Backlash Even Before Release