Title: WestJet Adds Calgary to Seoul Flights in Summer 2024
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/westjet-adds-calgary-to-seoul-flights-in-summer-2024/
--------------------------------------------------

1.5K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Canadian carrier, WestJet, is adding service between Calgary International Airport (YYC) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) in May 2024. This is the first time since 1997 that Seoul will have a seasonal, nonstop flight to Calgary.

This route has not been flown to Seoul in almost 27 years (Air Canada flew 1x weekly on an Airbus A340-300 back then). The new seasonal route is slated to begin on May 17th and will fly 3x weekly using a Boeing 787-9 with 16 Business, 28 Premium, and 276 Economy Class seats.

John Weatherill, WestJet Group Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, said:

It is with great pleasure that WestJet will serve as Alberta’s only direct link to South Korea, furthering our 787 global connectivity from our home city of Calgary. Beyond creating greater two-way tourism opportunities, WestJet service between Seoul and Calgary will increase connectivity between Western Canada and Asia generating unique business and cargo opportunities. We saw tremendous success with the launch of service to Asia last summer and anticipate our entry into Seoul will be warmly welcomed by Canadians.”

To celebrate the new route, WestJet is running a contest with a prize of a round-trip flight for two from any Canadian WestJet destination to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN). The contest opened at 8:00 AM MST on December 14th and runs through 11:59 PM MST on January 4th. It’s open to legal residents of Canada, except Quebec, who are over the legal age of majority in their jurisdiction of residence at the time of entry. No purchase is necessary. Full contest rules can be found here.

WestJet will be increasing its Calgary International Airport (YYC) to Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT) from 3x weekly to daily next summer (also using Boeing 787-9 aircraft). This is in addition to daily flights to London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) from Calgary.

Anthony’s Take: I recently flew WestJet and was impressed with the experience, overall (more here). Canada’s number two carrier is continuing to grow and expand with some new and exciting options internationally.

(Image Credits: WestJet.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.