Title: Hundreds of South Koreans arrive home after US immigration raid
Source: Sky.com
URL: https://news.sky.com/story/hundreds-of-south-koreans-arrive-home-in-incheon-after-us-immigration-raid-that-sparked-outrage-13429104
--------------------------------------------------

Hundreds of South Korean workers arrived home from the US after they were detained in a large-scale immigration raid.

The plane, carrying more than 300 South Koreans, landed at Incheon airport on Friday, where they were met by a crowd of journalists and TV cameras.

It followed a week of intense negotiations by Seoul to win their release.

The raid, which saw 475 people detained, was met with horror in South Korea, a key US ally, after they were taken into custody in handcuffs and shackles.

It took place at a Hyundai battery factory in Georgia last week, before they were held for a week by US Immigration and Customs.

They were then released and flown home from Atlanta.

The raid sparked outrage in South Korea and has threatened to destabilise crucial economic ties, at a time when both countries are seeking to finalise a trade deal.

It also threatens to harm South Korean investment into America, something US president Donald Trump has been keen to secure.

Hyundai CEO Jose Munoz said on Thursday that the battery plant is now facing a minimum startup delay of two to three months.

Be the first to get Breaking News

Install the Sky News app for free

According to US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, the arrested workers had the wrong visas.

He said in an interview with Axios: "I called up the Koreans, I said, oh, give me a break. Get the right visa, call me."

South Korean businesses have long struggled with securing proper visas for specialist workers, needed at project sites for months at a time.

That has led to some workers relying on grey areas in US visa enforcement.

South Korea's foreign minister, Cho Hyun, said the two countries are looking to establish a working group to consider a new type of visa for Koreans.

Read more:

Brazil's ex-president sentenced to jail

Prince Harry makes surprise visit to Ukraine

He had visited Washington earlier this week.

Mr Hyun met with US senators, where he relayed the concerns of South Koreans regarding the arrest of the professionals who had participated in investment projects in the US.

The plane was also carrying 10 workers from China, three from Japan and one Indonesian international.