Title: This radical plane concept with an all-in-one wing could be the future of flight. See the leading designs from startups and Airbus.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/blended-wing-aircraft-airbus-future-of-flight-jetzero-natilus-2024-11
--------------------------------------------------

Aircraft manufacturers are racing to build the jet of the future as airlines demand more efficient planes.

Among the most likely concepts is a blended-wing-body aircraft, which combines the fuselage and wing into one. This deviates from the traditional tube-and-wing design that has been the norm for commercial aviation.

The US Air Force, which has used the technology in some of its aircraft for decades, says the all-in-one wing can reduce drag by up to 30%. Last year it announced plans to work with the startup JetZero to more broadly roll out the design for military and commercial use.

A handful of companies have announced plans to build these distinctive vessels by the 2030s, including the startups JetZero and Natilus and the long-standing planemaker Airbus. Boeing has dabbled in blended-wing research but doesn't currently have plans to build a full-scale prototype.

Natilus and JetZero are starting from scratch and targeting different markets, but they have the same overarching goal: puncture the Airbus-Boeing duopoly.

Natilus is developing a 200-passenger narrow-body jet called Horizon, while JetZero plans to build a giant 250-capacity wide body called Pathfinder that would directly seek to replace aging Boeing 767s.

Airbus could defend its market share with its 200-passenger "ZEROe" blended-wing concept. The company has decades of experience designing commercial airplanes — leading the industry with its best-selling Airbus A320 family of similar capacity.

All three companies have found what they think is the secret sauce in the giant flying wing. It is poised to greatly reduce fuel burn, open up a wider cabin, and offer airlines better overall economics while still meeting route and infrastructure needs.