Title: India's answer to Singapore? Bengaluru terminal takes a 'leaf' out of Changi airport
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/indias-answer-to-singapore-bengaluru-terminal-takes-a-leaf-out-of-changi-airport/articleshow/103639482.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

The newly opened Terminal-2 at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru, India, is being compared to Singapore's Changi airport for its impressive design and features. The terminal, spread over four levels, incorporates elements of Bengaluru's culture, history, and natural surroundings. It boasts a garden-like environment with over 600,000 plants and has been designed to be sustainable, with features such as renewable energy usage and rainwater harvesting.

The comparison is a bit exaggerated but you can't miss the similarities. The swanky Terminal-2 of the Kempegowda International airport in Bengaluru which started operating international flights on Tuesday, is a 'terminal in the garden', reminding one of Singapore's Changi airport with its extravagant display of trees, plants and waterfalls. If the Bengaluru airport's Terminal-2 doesn't compete with Changi, it sure does take a 'leaf' out of it.

The terminal fuses the ethnic with the futuristic and the aesthetic with the efficient amid a lush green design.

The new 255,000 square metre terminal is designed and built on four key pillars and reflects Bengaluru's rich culture, history, its nature as the garden city and technology hub of India. Spread over four levels, the terminal is built for seamless departures and easy arrivals that are facilitated on different floors. The scale of T2 and the insightful design makes it a destination in itself.

Terminal in a garden

Designed and developed as a terminal in a garden, it offers passengers an experience to explore the unique flora sourced from multiple ecological habitats in India. Walking through the terminal provides a sense of awe with over 6 lakh plants offering a garden environment. These plants are nourished by a fully automated irrigation system. The plants include more than 3,600 native plant species.

ALSO READ: Jalan-Kalrock Consortium eyes control of Jet Airways

Live Events

Sustainability

Bengaluru airport is already a torch bearer in sustainability with 100% usage of renewable energy across the campus. T2 was planned, designed and built to be a sustainable building. It has been awarded the LEED Platinum Pre-certification* from USGBC (U.S Green Building Council); the largest airport in the world to be certified prior to commencement of operations. The usage of natural building materials, harvested rainwater, recycled and RO-treated wastewater in addition to natural light filtering through the skylights, contribute to the sustainable nature of T2.

Technology at every touch point

Technology is at the heart of every process resulting in improved efficiency and passenger comfort. End-to-end Digi Yatra biometric process, self-baggage drop kiosks, full body scanners and automatic tray retrieval systems ensure journeys turn into easy and unforgettable experiences. At T2, technology enables a smart mechanism to nurture and maintain the sustainable gardens. Remotely and intelligently managed irrigation systems with sensors measure humidity and temperature of the root zone to provide precise dosage of water to six lakh plants.

Art at T2

A reflection of human emotions form the core focus of the artworks at the airport. Art at T2 is based on two themes - Karnataka's rich heritage and culture, and Bharata Natyashastra's Naurasa or nine emotions. The artworks are at strategic locations and serve as beacons in a traveller's journey, allowing passengers to pause, reflect and enjoy.

ALSO READ: India's aviation watchdog pulls up P&W for IndiGo engine failure incident

India's airport boom

The Terminal-2 at the Bengaluru Airport is an icon of India's aviation boom. A breathless pace of infrastructure expansion is rivalled by expanding airlines. In a major fleet renewal and expansion programme, Tata Group-owned Air India has signed a pact recently to acquire 470 aircraft in what could be a $70 billion deal. Then IndiGo placed an order for 500 aircraft, taking the total number to 970. IndiGo had earlier ordered 480 aircraft that are likely to land between now and 2030. At the Paris Air Show in May, Akasa Air, a new entrant in Indian skies, announced an order to purchase four Boeing jets to the 72 aircraft it had already ordered.

Also, the fleet size of aircraft grew from sub-400 in 2014 to about 700 now. India needs more new airports to accommodate an expanding aviation sector. In 2013-14, there were six crore passengers; now the airlines are carrying about 14.5 crore passengers annually. Pre-Covid, the high was about 420,000 passengers a day. In the non-peak season this year, India crossed 460,000 on a single day.

India will have a fleet size of 1,200-1,400 planes by 2030, up from the current 700. The number of airports are expected to grow from 148 now to close to 230-240 by 2030.

While India has proved its capacity to create infrastructure at a rapid pace, it would now need to prove it can create infrastructure of best international standards. Terminal-2 at the Bengaluru airport signify this ambition.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless