Title: One Dead and 30 Injured As Singapore Airlines Flight Hits Severe Turbulence
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/one-dead-and-30-injured-as-singapore-airlines-flight-hits-severe-turbulence/
--------------------------------------------------

1.4K

Singapore Airlines flight SQ321 from London Heathrow Airport (LHR) to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) hit severe turbulence en route and was forced to divert to Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK). The turbulence was so intense that one passenger died and as many as 71 others were injured.

Flight attendants don’t tell passengers to wear their seatbelts because they feel like it or are on a power trip. Turbulence can hit at any time and if you’re not buckled up then you’re putting yourself at an unnecessary risk. While not confirmed that the deceased or injured passengers were unbuckled, it’s a small thing that can be done for your safety. There were 211 passengers and 18 crew members on the Boeing 777-300ER. The first 11 hours of the flight seemed uneventful until tragedy struck.

The video above shows the aftermath with overhead panels having fallen and debris across the cabin.

More photos taken after the plane had landed.

Singapore Airlines released this statement:

We can confirm that there are injuries and one fatality on board the Boeing 777-300ER. There were a total of 211 passengers and 18 crew on board. Singapore Airlines offers its deepest condolences to the family of the deceased. Our priority is to provide all possible assistance to all passengers and crew on board the aircraft. We are working with the local authorities in Thailand to provide the necessary medical assistance, and sending a team to Bangkok to provide any additional assistance needed.”

Anthony’s Take: Wear your seatbelts. Severe turbulence can happen at any time and wearing a seatbelt can save you from injury or even death. My condolences to the family of the passenger who died.

(Featured Image Credit: @aviationbrk via X.)