Title: Airline Theft Alert: Passengers Are Stealing Cash From Overhead Bins – Here’s How To Protect Yourself
Source: Viewfromthewing.com
URL: https://viewfromthewing.com/?p=208542
--------------------------------------------------

A passenger on a Singapore Airlines flight from Hong Kong to Singapore has been sentenced to two and a half years in prison for stealing nearly $90,000 from another man on board, out of the overhead bin.

The Chinese citizen was charged with theft, carrying undeclared cash of over $14,783.44 (SGD $20,000) into the country, converting stolen funds into casino chips, and also wire fraud for trying to transfer the funds to China.

These are actually lesser charges that he’s pled to. Singapore doesn’t mess around.

54-year old Peng Hui noticed the victim on board flight SQ899 on March 5th placing cash into a bag in the overhead.

He took the money out of the man’s backpack while he slept. That man actually declared the cash he no longer had on arrival at Singapore Changi airport.

Singapore Airlines Boeing 777 Economy Cabin

There are several lessons here. Singapore will catch you. They have cameras. They’re watching. Don’t try to launder stolen funds at a casino there. Also, anyone with money in China wants to get it out. Don’t send money that is already out back to mainland China.

In entering his plea he sough leniency because he has only one kidney, though he did not claim that his lack of a kidney caused him to steal money.

Singapore Airlines Airbus A350 Coach Cabin

Theft during travel happens all the time, but there are cameras all over the airport. Unless you control the cameras, or rely on inefficient bureaucracies (not Singapore) you aren’t going to get away with it. TSA screeners steal from passengers at checkpoints. One TSA screener even stole a CNN camera and sold it on eBay (he got caught because he forgot to remove the CNN stickers first).

Baggage handlers steal from checked bags. oneworld’s head of finance allegedly stole $2.2 million. And a former Miss USA stole noise cancelling headphones.

I’ve even reported on a ring of thieves stealing from passenger bags in the overhead bin just like this case. An Emirates flight attendant even stole from passengers who weren’t holding onto their wallets. And of course people steal lingerie out of luggage, too.

Here are some things you can do to avoid being a victim yourself,

Don’t let your items out of sight at the security checkpoint. If a screener wants to move you away, insist that you be allowed to watch your stuff, that you can collect your belongings or that they bring your items to you.

Mark your bags clearly and don’t use luggage that looks like everyone else’s bags, because sometimes theft is inadvertent (and when someone realizes they have the wrong bag they may not return it).

Board early enough to get overhead bin space above your head, so you’re more likely to notice someone taking your belongings during the flight.

Carry the most valuable items on your person, or in a bag that remains underneath the seat in front of you.

What do you do to protect yourself while at the airport or on board?

More From View from the Wing

About Gary Leff

Gary Leff is one of the foremost experts in the field of miles, points, and frequent business travel - a topic he has covered since 2002. Co-founder of frequent flyer community InsideFlyer.com, emcee of the Freddie Awards, and named one of the "World's Top Travel Experts" by Conde' Nast Traveler (2010-Present) Gary has been a guest on most major news media, profiled in several top print publications, and published broadly on the topic of consumer loyalty. More About Gary »

More articles by Gary Leff »