Title: Some Asian airlines are cracking down on portable chargers — how it could affect your trip
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/portable-batteries-regulations-asia/
--------------------------------------------------

In response to an airplane catching fire in South Korea earlier this year, several Asian airlines have issued new regulations for passengers who travel with portable batteries, including portable chargers.

As officials investigate the cause of an Air Busan plane that caught fire before it was scheduled to depart from Gimhae International Airport (PUS) in Busan, some Asian airlines are regulating portable batteries on board.

Several airlines, including all South Korean airlines and a number of carriers in Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore, have issued new regulations.

As of March 1, passengers flying on South Korean airlines like Korean Air and Asiana Airlines are not allowed to check lithium-ion auxiliary batteries, including those found in portable charging banks.

Additionally, passengers must cover these batteries with tape or store them in a plastic bag to "prevent them from coming into contact with metal," per updated guidance issued by the country's Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport on Feb. 13. Additionally, passengers must carry these batteries in their personal carry-on item underneath the seat in front of them or in the seat pocket in front of them in case of an "abnormal" response, per the government.

"Storage in the overhead compartment is prohibited," the ministry said.

Also, as of March 1, EVA Airways, one of the two largest airlines in Taiwan, prohibited charging or using power banks and spare lithium batteries while inflight. However, they are permitted in carry-on baggage as long as they are "properly stored to prevent compression or damage," the airline said Feb. 25.

This is also the case for those traveling on China Airlines departing from Incheon International Airport (ICN) in South Korea as of March 1.

"The ports of the power banks should be covered with insulating tape or protective covers or placed in transparent zip-lock bags or protective pouches, and carried on person or placed in the seat pocket in front," the airline said in an updated travel advisory issued Feb. 27.

Thai Airways also enacted the same regulations beginning March 15, followed by Singapore Airlines' ban on using portable batteries inflight effective April 1.

"Effective 1st April 2025, Singapore Airlines customers will not be allowed to charge portable power banks via the onboard USB ports, or use power banks to charge their personal devices, throughout the duration of the flight," the airline announced on X. "This means power banks must be carried in cabin baggage on all SIA flights and are not permitted in checked baggage. Customers may bring power banks with a capacity of up to 100Wh without special approval, while those between 100Wh and 160Wh require airline approval."

TPG senior hotels reporter Tanner Saunders traveled to South Korea on Korean Air last week from New York City and confirmed these policies.

"I heard multiple announcements at Incheon International Airport saying that certain types of batteries potentially needed to be wrapped in tape," he said.

In response to a request for comment regarding recently implemented policies, a spokesperson for Korean Air confirmed that spare lithium batteries must be "covered with insulating tape or carried in a plastic bag, with one battery per bag." Additionally, they must be less than 160Wh and individually packaged. Travelers carrying up to two spare batteries between 100Wh and 160Wh per person must receive approval from the airline when checking in for their flight.

As of March 17, the Federal Aviation Administration has not indicated plans to issue similar regulations in the U.S.

"The FAA recommends that passengers keep cell phones and other devices nearby in the cabin to quickly access them if necessary," an FAA spokesperson announced. "Flight crews are trained to recognize and respond to lithium battery fires in the cabin. Passengers should notify the flight crew immediately if their lithium battery or device is overheating, expanding, smoking or burning."

Domestic air passengers in the U.S. are permitted to carry spare lithium-ion batteries in their carry-on luggage only, and they must be less than 100 watt-hours, per FAA regulations. The FAA also requires batteries to be "protected from short circuit, i.e., the terminals must not come in contact with other metal" and suggests covering them with tape.