Title: Sniffer dog deployed at airport to detect bed bugs after Paris Olympics
Source: Sky.com
URL: https://news.sky.com/story/south-korea-deploys-sniffer-dog-at-airport-to-detect-bed-bugs-after-paris-olympics-13195955
--------------------------------------------------

South Korea has deployed a bed bug sniffer dog at its main international airport to reduce the risk of the insects entering the country after the Paris Olympics.

Ceco, a two-year-old beagle, is heading up the campaign at Incheon International Airport as the only canine trained in the country to detect the odour of pheromones emitted by bed bugs.

The pooch is able to check for the blood-sucking creatures in a standard hotel room in under two minutes, said Kim Min-su from pest control company Cesco.

Olympics homecoming latest: Team GB travelling home

Last year, authorities in Paris raced to contain a nationwide panic before the start of the Games after bed bugs were reportedly spotted in homes, cinemas, hospitals and trains.

Worried the outbreak might ruin the event, authorities conducted a campaign to root out any infestation.

Read more:

Paris Olympics captivated the world

Will bed bugs travel from Paris to the UK?

The South Korean government said as a result it is taking a "preemptive response to intercept the entry [of the bugs] through the Incheon international airport, which is the main gateway to the country".

Cesco has teamed up with the country's transportation and security ministries, as well as its disease control and prevention agency, and is working with airlines and the airport to screen travellers on arrival.

Flights arriving directly from Paris are being disinfected once a week compared with the normal rate of once a month, and the airport quarantine service is being prepared to swing into action if an outbreak is detected in an aircraft or at the airport.

South Korea sent 144 athletes to compete at the Olympics, which officially ended on Sunday evening, finishing eighth in the overall medal table with 13 golds, nine silver and 10 bronze.

Ceco and his team have been deployed as more athletes, fans and officials started arriving back from Paris - and will continue to work through until 8 September.