Title: South Korean president orders emergency inspection of nation's airline system
Source: ABC News (AU)
URL: https://www.abc.net.au/news/2024-12-30/emergency-safety-inspection-for-south-korean-airline-system/104772748
--------------------------------------------------

South Korea's acting president Choi Sang-mok orders emergency inspection into country's airline operationsShareShare articleSouth Korea's acting president Choi Sang-mok orders emergency inspection into country's airline operationsTopic:Air Incidents

South Korea's acting president Choi Sang-mok has ordered an emergency safety inspection into the country's entire airline operation system.

This comes after the country's deadliest air disaster where 175 passengers and four crew members were killed, on Sunday.

Mr Choi says the top priority is identifying the victims of the crash and treating the two survivors.

Link copiedShareShare articleSouth Korea's acting president Choi Sang-mok has ordered an emergency safety inspection of the country's entire airline operation system, as investigators work to identify victims and find out what has caused the deadliest air disaster in the country.

All 175 passengers and four of the six crew were killed when a Jeju Air flight 7C2216 belly-landed and skidded off the end of the runway at Muan International Airport, erupting in a fireball as it slammed into a wall.

The top priority for now is identifying the victims, supporting their families and treating the two survivors, Mr Choi told a disaster management meeting in Seoul.

The Jeju Air crash on Sunday afternoon is South Korea's worst airline disaster in more than 30 years, with 179 of the 181 people on board dying.

"Even before the final results are out, we ask that officials transparently disclose the accident investigation process and promptly inform the bereaved families," he said on Monday.

"As soon as the accident recovery is conducted, the transport ministry is requested to conduct an emergency safety inspection of the entire aircraft operation system to prevent recurrence of aircraft accidents," he said.

As a first step, the transport ministry announced plans to conduct a special inspection of all 101 Boeing 737-800 aircraft operated by South Korean airliners beginning on Monday, focusing on the maintenance record of key components.

The flight arriving from Bangkok, Thailand was trying to land shortly after 9am, local time, on Sunday at the airport in the south of the country.

Investigators are examining bird strikes, whether any of the aircraft's control systems were disabled and the apparent rush by the pilots attempting a landing soon after declaring an emergency as possible factors in the crash, fire and transportation officials have said.

Experts say many questions remain, including why the plane, powered by two CFM 56-7B26 engines, appeared to be travelling so fast and why its landing gear did not appear to be down when it skidded down the runway and into a concrete embankment.

On Monday, transport ministry officials said as the pilots made a scheduled approach they told air traffic control the aircraft had suffered a bird strike, shortly after the control tower gave them a warning birds were spotted in the vicinity.

The pilots then issued a mayday warning and signalled their intention to abandon the landing and to go around and try again. Shortly afterwards, the aircraft came down on the runway, touching down about 1,200 metres along the 2,800m runway and sliding into the embankment at the end of the runway.

Officials are investigating what role the localiser antenna, located at the end of the runway to help in landing, played in the crash, including the concrete embankment on which it was standing, transport ministry officials told a media briefing.

"Normally, on an airport with a runway at the end, you don't have a wall," said Christian Beckert, a flight safety expert and Lufthansa pilot based in Munich.

"You more have maybe an engineered material arresting system, which lets the airplane sink into the ground a little bit and brakes [it]."

The crash killed mostly local residents who were returning from holidays in Thailand, while two Thai nationals also died.

"I can only accept it, make peace with it," said Boonchuay Duangmanee, 77, the father of one of the Thai victims. "When I think about it, I remind myself that it was an accident. It's something that can happen to anyone. So, I've come to terms with it because no matter what I do, my daughter won't come back."

On Monday morning, investigators were trying to identify some of the more than two dozen remaining victims, as anguished families waited inside the Muan airport terminal.

Family members rushed to Muan International Airport after the December 29 crash. (Reuters: Kim Soo-hyeon)

Park Han-shin, who lost his brother in the crash, said he was told by authorities that his brother had been identified but has not been able to see his body.

Mr Park called on other victims' families to unite in responding to the disaster and recovery efforts, citing a 2014 ferry sinking that killed more than 300 people.

Many relatives of the victims of the Sewol ferry disaster complained it took authorities too long to identify those killed and the cause of the accident.

Transportation ministry officials said the jet's flight data recorder was recovered but appeared to have sustained some damage on the outside and it was not yet clear whether the data was sufficiently intact to be analysed.

Investigations continue into what caused Jeju Air flight JC-2216 to crash and explode at the end of a runway at a South Korean airport.

The recorder has been transported to Seoul and an analysis will begin when a team of US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and Boeing officials arrive in the country late on Monday, the officials told reporters.

Muan International Airport will remain closed until Wednesday but the rest of the country's international and regional airports including the main Incheon International Airport were operating as scheduled.

Shares of Jeju Air hit their lowest level on record on Monday, trading as much as 15.7 per cent lower.

Under global aviation rules, South Korea will lead a civil investigation into the crash and automatically involve the NTSB since the plane was designed and built in the US.

A large memorial has been set up in a county gym about nine kilometres from the crash site, where people including the acting president came to pay their respects.

Mr Choi, who is overseeing recovery efforts and the investigation, became acting leader just three days ago after the country's president and prime minister were impeached over the imposition of a short-lived martial law.