Title: Alcohol influence goes from bad to worse: Indian man threatens to kill a crew member on a Singapore-bound flight
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/etimes/trending/alcohol-influence-goes-from-bad-to-worse-indian-man-threatens-to-kill-a-crew-member-on-a-singapore-bound-flight/articleshow/119848079.cms
--------------------------------------------------

A 42-year-old Indian man on a Singapore-bound flight became aggressive under the influence of alcohol, causing a disturbance and threatening a crew member. The man was detained onboard and subsequently arrested at Changi Airport, facing multiple charges including criminal intimidation and jeopardizing flight safety.

Drinking can blur the lines of judgment between right and wrong, leading to uncontrolled emotions, which can cause unforeseen and harmful reactions. Sometimes, the confined and compact spaces of an airplane, along with strong emotions under the influence of alcohol, have often led to problems like verbal banters and scuffles among people onboard, due to which airlines across the globe, have implemented necessary policies in place, to control alcohol consumption on flights, but untoward incidents still keep occuring. Recently, a Singapore-bound flight experienced one such disruption, when a 42-year-old Indian man became invariantly aggressive while being under the influence of alcohol. The incident came to light on March 31, after the police issued a statement giving details about the event, and as reported by the news website Mothership, Singapore police are set to charge the 42-year-old Indian national in court on April 1. The man initially caused a disturbance by grabbing the passenger seated next to him and annoyed the fellow passengers on board seated in front of him repeatedly. When the cabin crew intervened to calm him, his aggressive behavior increased. He grabbed the wrist of a male cabin crew member and threatened to kill him. This frightening behaviour heavily jeopardized the safety of the flight and created a huge distress among the other passengers on board.

The crew intervened and arrested the man

The situation was managed effectively by the flight attendants, who warned the man first that the plane would turn around if he continued his behaviour. The man followed their warnings but was detained by the crew for the remaining journey to ensure safety onboard. Upon landing at Singapore’s Changi Airport, the man was arrested by local authorities. He now faces multiple charges, including using criminal force to a person, being intoxicated onboard and jeopardizing order and discipline, and criminal intimidation with a threat to cause death. The most severe of these charges carries a possible jail term of up to 10 years, a fine, or both. The Singapore police issued a reminder to air travelers after this disturbing incident came under the limelight saying, "Physical aggression, verbal threats and attempts to interfere with the crew’s duties can compromise flight safety." The authorities assured their commitment to take strict action against the behavior of people on flights who endanger the safety of passengers or crew members. They said, “All air travellers are reminded to adhere to air safety regulations and conduct themselves responsibly when onboard an aircraft. ”

End of Article