Title: 4 Hours In Korean Airlines 777-300ER Business Class…
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/korean-airlines-777-300er-prestige-class/
--------------------------------------------------

After a short layover at Seoul Incheon Airport, I connected to Hong Kong on a Korean Airlines 777-300ER in “Prestige” business class. The flight was pleasant, though sadly my meal was not.

Korean Airlines 777-300ER Prestige Class (Business Class) – My First Impressions

Although this plane has a first class cabin, first class is not sold on this flight. I requested a first class seat while in Atlanta on the Seoul – Hong Kong portion and was told there were several available and to check in Seoul. However, by the time I reached Seoul, I was told that all seats were assigned. It appears that these seats are given to top-tier members of the Korean Air SKYPASS program…

Korean uses the B/E Aerospace Apex seat in business class, branding it as a “Prestige Suite.” I booked a window seat in the mini-cabin behind first class, which includes only a single row of seats (staggered 2-2-2, all with direct aisle access). The turquoise seats have been recovered in dark gray.

While this seat lacks storage, it is like a mini-first class seat with three windows and a small ottoman for your feet. It’s nice that there is no footwell, which constrains space, but I do prefer the Super Diamond reverse herringbone seat to this one.

Dinner was served after takeoff. I wanted to try the bibimbap, but it appears this is only available on inbound flights to Seoul, not outbound flights. However, I did pre-order the Korean dish for dinner, which was a stir-fried octopus in hot spicy sauce.

Folks, I tried. I really tried. While the dish was not too spicy for me, the flavors and textures did not work for me (I don’t know how else to say it) and I only ate about half of it. Ordinarily, I love octopus but this was so rubbery and chewy and the soup was far too salty. A flight attendant graciously offered to bring me another dish on the menu when she saw I did not finish, but I was full…I had enjoyed a nice meal in the first class lounge.

This flight did have Wi-Fi, with a flight pass costing 11.95 USD (or a messaging pass 4.95 USD). I was not tired and passed the time after dinner watching a movie (Juror #2…directed by Clint Eastwood and very well done) and listening to Andrea Bocelli.

We landed on time in Hong Kong and I was quickly off the plane and onboard a train heading for passport control.

Overall, it was a pleasant flight with good service. I probably should have stuck to the Western menu over the Korean dish, but that’s really on me. I’ll offer more details about the flight–including info on other menu options, amenities, lavatories, and IFE in my full review.