Title: Air France is Launching Service Between Paris and Manila
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-france-is-launching-service-between-paris-and-manila/
--------------------------------------------------

1.5K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Air France announced today that it’s launching 3x weekly service between Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) and Manila’s Ninoy Aquino International Airport (MNL). These flights will begin on December 7th and fly on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays.

The route will be operated with an Airbus A350-900 with 34 Business Class, 24 Premium Economy, and 266 Economy Class seats. Manila is currently served by Air France’s sister airline, KLM. These flights to/from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS) run 4x weekly on on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Fridays, and Sundays, which coordinate with Air France’s flights to offer service from Europe every day of the week.

In addition to flying to Manila’s Ninoy Aquino International Airport (MNL), Air France will serve Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND) (up to 15 flights a week), Osaka’s Kansai International Airport (KIX) (up to three flights a week), Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK) (up to seven flights a week), Shanghai Pudong International Airport (PVG) (up to seven flights a week), Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) (up to seven flights a week), Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (up to seven flights a week), Bangkok Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) (up to 13 flights a week), Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) (up to 10 flights a week), and Ho Chi Minh City’s Tân Sơn Nhất International Airport (SGN) (three flights a week).

This new route is the fifth that Air France has announced for this coming winter season. Others include:

Salvador-Deputado Luís Eduardo Magalhães International Airport (SSA) (3x weekly; starts on October 28th)

Kilimanjaro International Airport (JRO) (3x weekly; starts on November 18th)

Malé’s Velana International Airport (MLE) (2x weekly; starts on December 20th)

Kiruna Airport (KRN) (1x weekly, starts on December 21st)

Anthony’s Take: I like Air France’s Business Class service on longhaul flights. It’s exciting to see the airline connecting Europe and Asia with so many routes this winter.

(Image Credits: Air France.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.