Title: Viral Video Shows Staff Handwriting Plane Tickets After Microsoft IT Outage
Source: Newsweek
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/airport-flight-delays-handwritten-plane-tickets-microsoft-outage-tiktok-1928622
--------------------------------------------------

A video showing airport workers in Thailand scrambling to write out plane tickets for passengers during the Microsoft IT outage has gone viral on TikTok.

The clip was shared by Singapore-based Dovanson Quah (@dodovanson), a 35-year-old financial services director at AIA Singapore, an insurance agency. The poster was scheduled to fly at 9:20 a.m. July 19 flight with Jetstar, the Australian low-cost airline, from Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) in Bangkok, the Thai capital, to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN), the passenger told Newsweek.

A message overlaid on the video, which has garnered over 410,000 views since it was posted on July 20, reads: "Plane tickets had to be handwritten in the recent global tech outage..."

Read More on Travel

The footage shows staff members crouched over on a floor, writing on pieces of paper. One staff member is shown going through a giant document, as the note across the screen continues "with airport staff all coming together behind the desk counters to tally the flight manifest."

Quah said: "I felt that it wasn't overly chaotic. Unlike the news footage I see of airports in Europe, the queue was slow, but still manageable as a lot more airport staff were deployed to help with the situation manually."

The major Microsoft outage, triggered by a software update issue at the cyber-security firm CrowdStrike, led to chaos for businesses worldwide, including several airlines whose flights were delayed or canceled on Friday.

According to data from FlightAware, the flight tracking website, there were a total of 46,013 flight delays and 5,017 flight cancellations across the globe on Friday. Jetstar was reported to have 106 flight delays and 66 cancellations that day.

The website also indicated that there were 12,896 flight delays and 3,403 cancellations within, into or out of the U.S.

Flights with Delta Air Lines, United and American Airlines were all grounded in the U.S., while Frontier Airlines said that the Microsoft outage had affected its systems. "During this time booking, check-in, access to your boarding pass, and some flights may be impacted," Frontier said at the time on X, formerly Twitter.

'Nightmare'

The footage in the viral video shows crowds standing beyond the check-in desks, where the airport staff were spotted writing out the plane tickets.

The poster told Newsweek that the flight delay lasted from the 9:20 p.m. departure time to 2 a.m. the next morning. "The plane was on the tarmac for another hour though, so we technically took off at 3 a.m.," the passenger said.

As the flight delay did not surpass the six-hour requirement for a travel insurance claim, the poster couldn't make a claim and "didn't pursue anything with the airline either. My party and I, we just sucked it up."

Since they were heading home, the experience "wasn't too bad," the passenger said, but some had to work the next day. "We arrived in Singapore at 6:30 a.m., went home and went straight to work," the poster noted.

A message across the clip says: "It was difficult, tired and frustrating but I think all the airport staff did really well!"

TikTok users were shocked by the scene in the viral clip.

Solovenus said "Omg this is a nightmare" and the original poster replied, "It was quite an experience!"

Pug Time wrote, "Unreal. Those poor workers", and anna agreed, saying "omg the poor airport staff."

User vicente said: "This is why robots and technology cannot replace humans and human work at all. salute to you."