Title: Reader Email: Airline Threatens To Deny Boarding On One-way Ticket?
Source: Loyaltylobby.com
URL: https://loyaltylobby.com/2023/07/13/reader-email-airline-threatens-to-deny-boarding-on-one-way-ticket/
--------------------------------------------------

A LoyaltyLobby reader sent us a question about how to deal with a situation when an airline threatens to deny transportation due to having a one-way ticket.

Readers are encouraged to send us questions, comments, or opinions by email, Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. We’ll try to cover them here several times a week.

Reader’s Email:

I would like to share an experience that is not uncommon but first happen to myself and hear from any suggestions you may have.

I am a Canadian citizen living in Singapore. I redeemed an one way ticket to Taiwan because I would continue my trip only after some business matters are settled, which may take a few days or a week I can’t be sure when I booked the ticket.

I was required to present a return or onward ticket to board the plane at Changi Airport. I had experience with one way ticket to some countries with no issues. Maybe I was just lucky but this time I was refused to board the plane unless I show them a onward ticket. I had to buy a relative expensive ticket in rush since I was almost the last one at the check-in counter and the clock is ticking. What a awkward moment.

Do you have any ideas on how to better handle the one-way ticket scenario when we do not want to be fixed in a schedule?

One way I can think of is using a reserved but unpaid ticket to show it at counter if asked but can’t be sure if it is workable.

This situation is not that uncommon, and I have faced it a few times, most recently when flying on Cathay Pacific to Bangkok, who forced me to buy an onward ticket on the spot even when I was flying in business.

You should always check the entry rules when it comes to onward journeys using Timatic because these often depend on your nationality and sometimes where your residency is and/or what visas you may have.

These onward ticket rules are often only enforced by the airline, but you may be asked to show your itinerary at immigration too.

My Advice is:

1. Award Ticket

Book an onward award ticket with a program that doesn’t charge for cancellations. Cancel your award once you have entered your destination country.

2. Paid Ticket With No Cancellation Fees

You can either buy a fully flexible ticket with no cancellation/refund fees OR use an OTA that allows you to cancel without a fee within 24 hours of ticket issuance (such as Orbitz).

Conclusion

The airlines enforce the onward ticket requirement because the destination country fines them if a passenger is denied entry and they haven’t followed all the requirements regarding entry compliance.

Once in a full moon, I have been asked for an onward ticket by an airline agent or at immigration.

Then there is the Yellow Fever vaccination proof that you may need to provide to enter certain countries, and it has affected me twice; I once got vaccinated upon entry and with a $20 note in Côte d’Ivoire and denied boarding a flight to Johannesburg from Sao Paulo because I didn’t have it with me—something to also keep in mind.