Title: Man, 22, fined after Instagram joke about blowing up plane delays flight
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/man-instagram-story-blow-up-plane-fined-court-5385906
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: A 22-year-old Singaporean man who posted an Instagram story saying he was going to blow a plane up was reported to the police by Meta.

The Etihad Airways flight was delayed while the young man was probed, with the airline later incurring a late departure payment of S$1,750 (US$1,355).

Azim Shah Abubakar Shah was fined S$3,500 by a court on Monday (Oct 6) for one count of making a threatening communication seen by others and likely to cause alarm.

The court heard that the police received information from a member of Meta's law enforcement team at about 7.20pm on Feb 14 this year.

He reported detecting an Instagram story post with the message: "No one here knows I'm gonna blow the plane up".

The police were given Azim's phone number and IP address and traced the message to Azim. They determined that he was on board Etihad Airways on a flight departing Singapore for Abu Dhabi.

The plane, which was on the runway at Changi Airport, was recalled to Terminal 2. Azim was escorted from the plane and his luggage was searched.

He admitted posting the Instagram story at about 6.55pm. The story can be viewed by only 16 of his friends.

Azim said his post was a joke.

His actions delayed the flight and it was released for departure only at about 9.25pm that day.

Azim was arrested past midnight on Feb 15 and later released on bail.

On Monday, the prosecutor sought a fine of S$4,000 for Azim, considering his relative young age, lack of convictions and early plea of guilt.

However, Deputy Public Prosecutor Timotheus Koh said there were substantial consequences, citing the flight delay of about two-and-a-half hours from the time of the post as well as inconvenience to the crew and passengers.

The airline also incurred the late departure charge and resources were expended to verify the bomb threat.

Azim's defence lawyer, Mr Mohammad Shafiq from M Shafiq Chambers, sought a fine of S$1,000 instead.

He said his client, who is a national serviceman with the Singapore Civil Defence Force, was travelling overseas with his friends for a holiday.

He posted the statement as a misguided "joke" directed at his circle of 16 close friends on Instagram, said Mr Mohammad Shafiq.

"He did not appreciate that such a post, particularly when he was due to fly shortly, would cause public alarm even if disseminated to a 'closed' group, nor did he appreciate the serious consequences such a post could trigger," said the lawyer.

He added that Azim immediately admitted to the post when questioned and explained that it stemmed from "banter about his religious identity".

Mr Mohammad Shafiq said Azim has expressed deep remorse for his lapse in judgment and recognises the seriousness of his actions.

In response, the prosecutor said a fine of S$1,000 would be inadequate to cover the outcome of Azim's actions. The fine barely commensurates with the financial penalty incurred by the airline, said Mr Koh.

He said that while the airline has declined compensation, the fine imposed could adequately reflect the cost incurred.

Azim paid the fine in full.

For making a threatening communication likely to cause alarm, he could have been fined up to S$5,000.