Title: Inside Look: Marina Bay Sands Review
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbes-personal-shopper/article/marina-bay-sands-review/
--------------------------------------------------

All products and services featured are independently selected by Forbes Vetted contributors and editors. When you make a purchase through links on this page, we may earn a commission. Learn more

Astrid Taran, Forbes Staff

Forbes Vetted

Few images are more synonymous with Singapore than the three towers of Marina Bay Sands. The massive integrated resort—which, alongside a hotel, features a shopping mall, convention center, museum, casino and more—made a splash when it first opened in 2010. Today, it has become the country’s most iconic landmark.

With so many eyes on Marina Bay Sands, the property is constantly striving to look its best, and with its recent $1.75 billion renovation, it has done just that. On a recent trip to Singapore, I was able to get a peek into the property’s largest brand refresh, including the completion of the new luxury Paiza Collection across all three towers. Here’s an in-depth review of my stay.

Marina Bay Sands

Who Will Love It: Travelers who want to be in the heart of Singapore

All-Star Amenities: SkyPark observation deck with a 500-foot rooftop infinity pool; Sands Theatre; Banyan Tree Spa; shopping mall with over 280 shops and 19 flagship stores; over 80 restaurants, including Spago by Wolfgang Puck and Maison Boulud; convention center; fitness center; ArtScience Museum; MBS casino

What Not To Miss: A dip in the infinity pool, with unparalleled views of Singapore

Location: Marina Bay, Singapore

All-Star Amenities

Marina Bay Sand’s iconic three towers were designed by the architect Moshe Safdie, whose goal was to use the buildings to frame views of the city and sea. A long lobby lined with lush greenery and soaring ceilings leads to the entrances of each tower, where guests will quickly discover the property’s true all-star amenity: its unparalleled variety of shops, dining outlets, entertainment venues and facilities. These include more than 280 retail outlets, 80 restaurants, a state-of-the-art theater and convention center, casino, spa and more.

My stay coincided with the completion of the property’s Paiza Collection, luxury category rooms that comprise the top floors of the towers. The rooms have already been home for bold-named clientele—David Beckham was staying in one of the suites during my visit—and as an added perk, all Paiza guests enter through a discreet, VIP entrance located behind the main entrance. Paiza guests are also granted access to the Paiza Sky Residence, a lounge that offers an opulent breakfast, evening cocktails, tea ceremonies with an in-house tea sommelier and a guests-only whiskey bar.

Rooms

As part of the recent renovation, Marina Bay Sands reduced the number of rooms to increase the spaciousness of each. I stayed in an 800-square-foot Paiza Bay Suite, the most entry-level Paiza suite. Located on a top floor of the third tower, it featured sweeping views of Marina Bay as well as a separate living area and bedroom. I got some of my best sleep in years in the bed: It was furnished with a horse tail, Mongolian yak wool and cashmere mattress made by luxury brand Savoir. The mattress usually retails for about $30,000—and it’s definitely plush.

The walls of my suite were lined with bespoke wallpaper from the British design brand Formental and customized artworks evoked the flora and fauna of Singapore and the waves of the bay. Leather products from local brand Bynd Artisan provided a touch of elegance and a daily curated “water bar” featured six different varieties of still and sparkling, including Hildon mineral water, which is famous for being the preferred water of Queen Elizabeth. The butler service was also highly attentive, even bringing up a jar of honey when I craved tea at a late hour.

Food And Beverage

There’s no shortage of dining options at Marina Bay Sands. The resort is home to more than 80 restaurants, with multiple outlets helmed by celebrity chefs: Spago by Wolfgang Puck and Broad Street Kitchen by Gordon Ramsey are two stand-outs. During my stay, I dined at Maison Boulud by Michelin-starred chef Daniel Boulud, which is only its second international location after Montreal. London- and Hong Kong-based interior designer Joyce Wang designed the luxe, two-level restaurant with its large, arched windows and coastal-inspired artwork and décor.

I also nabbed a table at Estiatorio Milos, which opened in Marina Bay Sands this past summer. The sophisticated Greek dining outlet has ten other locations in cities around the world, including New York, Miami and Dubai, and this outpost is the very first in Asia. The jewel on the menu is the “Fish Market,” a centerpiece dining experience that features a selection of wild-caught fish air-flown daily from the Mediterranean. Also not to miss: The whole fish baked in sea salt and the “Milos special” with fried zucchini and eggplant dipped in Saganaki cheese and tzatziki.

What To Do In The Area

Marina Bay Sands is located in the Bayfront subzone of Singapore’s downtown. It’s an incredibly central and convenient location, within walking distance to top attractions like Merlion Park, the Singapore Flyer, the Supertree Grove and the National Gallery of Singapore. The Orchard Road shopping district and Sentosa Island are both a ten-minute drive away, and the vibrant neighborhoods of Kampong Glam, Chinatown and Little India are a five-minute drive away. All of these destinations are also accessible by Singapore mass rapid transit (MRT).

How To Get There

Marina Bay Sands is located a 15-minute drive from Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). It’s also a 3-minute walk from the Bayfront MRT station on both the Downtown line and Circle line.