Title: MCM Enters New Era Of Female-Led Expansion
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/angelalei/2024/07/15/mcm-enters-new-era-of-female-led-expansion/
--------------------------------------------------

Something’s shifting in MCM. The German luxury label, born over 45 years ago in München and subsequently acquired by Sungjoo Group in 2005, is revisiting its storied heritage with an elevation in design aesthetics and a refocused growth strategy — at a rapid pace.

Over the past 18 months, the House saw the launch of RTW collections featuring new design codes implemented to unveil a more polished and grown brand image, a series of collaborations and activations in the sphere of art and culture, as well as the debut of MCM Wearable Casa: the House’s first seven-piece furniture and accessories collection created in partnership with Alberto Biagetti. On a global scale, the House’s stores have also been through some major facelift — led by the top management team’s unwavering focus in providing unparalleled customer experience.

“Since I acquired the Group in 2005, MCM has been continuously revolutionizing products and branding to differentiate from our peers, and has become much more customer centric,” When asked what prompted the new, noticeable direction, shares Sung-Joo Kim, MCM’s Chief Visionary Officer and Chairperson. “Our smart luxury operations have been built on the philosophical foundation of the Bauhaus & Zeitgeist, and our next focus is now on the consumer, enabled by our digital transformation.”

Sabine Brunner, who joined the House as MCM’s president and Global Brand & Commercial Officer from renowned industry names including TOD’s, Roger Vivier, and Bonpoint, agrees: “In a market where consumers are more cautious up and conscious about their buys, it is extremely important to be true to yourself and coherent within the offer in your stores. We want to offer what the customers need to live their digital nomad lifestyles, being also responsible towards our planet. Quality craftsmanship, perfect engineering, best in class materials and seasonless and transformative designs are our pillars, we call it Smart Luxury.”

With campaign fronted by Cara Delevingn, MCM’s current offering has significantly expanded from the original category (handbags and backpacks) it’s known for, and include both mens- and womenswear, leather goods in an array of silhouettes featuring the updated Lauretos motif, travel accessories, footwear and more. “Our collections feature clean lines, premium materials, and meticulous detail, creating a timeless yet contemporary look.” Referring to the styles launched over the past couple years, Chung says the goal is to blend luxury craftsmanship with modern sophistication, without undermining the brand’s rich heritage. “For the next chapter, we plan to integrate advanced technologies and sustainable practices into our designs, ensuring relevance and responsibility.”

“The goal is to inspire with stylish, functional products that reflect our dynamic, forward-thinking spirit.” Chung adds.

No stranger to the business of luxury fashion (Sungjoo Group, founded by Kim in 1990, has earned a reputation as Korea’s fashion leader having launched the prominent brands including Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent, Sonia Rykiel and Marks & Spencer), Kim says the key element seen in the latest range is multi-functional and versatile ready-to-wear apparel, through innovative design and a seasonless approach.

Most of all, sustainability is said to be at brand top priority with the ultimate goal being minimizing the environmental impact of the business. “Introducing an interactive retail environment enhanced by the Metaverse is one of the ways we can achieve both of the aforementioned, highlighting that being Metaverse-driven and sustainable are enhancements, amplifiers and qualifiers of being a true SMART luxury brand today,” says Kim.

Despite the boom of the digital sale channels during the pandemic, Kim sees tremendous value in traditional retail. The brand’s flagship store in London, located on Conduit Street in the swanky Mayfair area, has been decorated to reflect the House’s newly adopted design codes with an extra touch of discretion. But impeccable customer service and advanced technology are non-negotiable for Kim.

“Stores are set to become must-visit destinations where consumers can enjoy interactive and memorable 360-degree shopping experiences. This requires a solid tech stack and strong IT infrastructure which can seamlessly manage consumer databases as well as customer data between systems, sales channels and markets in order to create a ‘single view’ of the customer which can be leveraged to personalize their experience across each touchpoint from awareness and acquisition to conversion and retention.”

With 584 stores on a global scale and over 60 stores in China alone, expansion and growth is a standing focal point for both Kim and MCM. “We are focusing on developing our business within the Middle East as well as South East Asia,” Kim shares, and touches again upon the importance of virtual-driven, digitalized business. “We are also reviving the US market with a focus on E&M commerce and the Metaverse. We believe these areas can truly accelerate our growth and development with scalability and sustainability.”

There is also plan to adjust the brand’s sales channel mix by reducing its reliance on third party business and focus instead on the brand’s existing D2C channels — directly-operated flagship stores and global e-commerce site. “We aim to surprise and delight by engaging and interacting with clients through virtual technology such as ARArweave, VR and smart mirrors in order to enhance and elevate.”

MCM currently has an all-female leadership team, and employs a non-restrictive female-to-male gender ratio of 70:30. Was this intentional?

“Growing up in a conservative and patriarchal environment in South Korea, I had to face countless roadblocks on the journey that has led me to where I am today. Despite these obstacles, I have focused on innovation, technology and growth instead of social norms and limitations to deliver my vision for MCM to become a true SMART luxury leader.”

Kim says rather than blaming men or tradition, the MCM team embraces diversity under the philosophy that it breeds intellectual wealth and a catalyst to profitability. “Today we are actually facing a turning point in human history, and I believe that the new formula for growth involves maximum synergy between human and AI, and MCM is in the stage of proactively adopting responsible Gen AI in our products, services, and operations throughout all our processes. MCM has thrived on a global scale through agile female leadership, a multicultural environment and our digital transformation.”

When asked what’s next for MCM and herself as CVOVanguard Mid-Cap ETF, Kim says showing that a majority female-led organization can be successful in this multicultural environment on a global scale is one of her key goals.

“As for me, I will continue working to achieve my and my company’s motto — ‘Succeed to Serve.’ I believe in purpose rather than money driven, and that it is our firm duty to give back to society, protecting our planet and empowering the next generations.”