Title: Hidden Gem: Qatar Airways Singapore Premium Lounge
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/qatar-airways-lounge-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

I arrived in Singapore on KLM not quite sure how I would get to California, but ended up booking flights on Malaysia Airlines to Tokyo via Kuala Lumpur. That gave me a chance to lounge hop at Singapore Changi Airport (SIN), including at the Qatar Airways Premium Lounge, a lounge which greatly exceeded my expectations.

Qatar Airways Lounge Singapore

I’ve raved about the Qatar Airways lounges in Doha before, including the Al Mourjan Business Class Lounge and the Al Safwa First Class Lounge. Not only is Qatar Airways excellent onboard, but offers a superb ground product as well. This, however, was my first visit to an outstation lounge. How would it measure up?

My first question was why Qatar Airways even has a lounge. After all, SIN has three other oneworld lounges including a British Airways, Cathay Pacific, and Qantas lounges. But whatever the reason (and I would wager it is to control the ground product at a sprawling airport…the same reason Emirates has outstation lounges too), this lounge is a hidden gem.

Access rules require that you be on a same-day oneworld flight in business or first class. Thus, unlike the lovely Qantas First lounge, this is not a oneworld Emerald lounge. My flight from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur was only about an hour long, but I splurged for business class specifically to access this lounge.

The seating area is comfortable, with seats near the entrance and in the rear of the L-shaped lounge.

In the middle, is a dining room and bar.

In the very rear, restrooms and showers.

There’s a small buffet, though if you want to eat something heartier I recommend you sit down in the restaurant.

I enjoyed a dinner in the lounge that really surprised me: I found it exceeded the quality of food even in the Singapore Private Room and Qantas First Class Lounge. Of course, that could be because I have a major soft spot for lamb…

But it really felt like being in Doha, with a full menu of food and drinks and superb attentive service by the lounge staff. I began with buffalo mozzarella (drizzled in balsamic vinegar and topped in strawberries) which was light and the perfect mashing of flavors.

For the main course, lamb cutlets which were perfectly prepared medium rare.

Finally, fresh berries to conclude the meal.

While flight catering ex-Singapore is usually above average, stopping by this lounge prior to your flight is an even better option.

CONCLUSION

I took hundreds to pictures and will post a full review when the trip report kicks off, but I wanted to post these brief first impressions primarily because this lounge surprised me in such a positive way. The Qantas First Lounge has superior coffee, but I found the food and service in the Qatar Premium Lounge to be even better.