Title: Delta unveils first-ever flights from Salt Lake City to Seoul
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/delta-air-lines-salt-lake-city-seoul-route/
--------------------------------------------------

Delta Air Lines will once again connect its Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) hub with Asia.

Delta announced Friday that it will add daily service from SLC to Incheon International Airport (ICN) in Seoul, South Korea, beginning June 12, 2025.

This new 5,904-mile route will be operated by Delta's flagship Airbus A350 aircraft, which features Delta One Suites and Premium Select, two of Delta's most premier (and expensive) cabins.

Tickets for the new flight will be available for purchase by Monday.

The westbound service will depart SLC at 11:05 a.m. and land at 3:20 p.m. the following day. The eastbound flight will depart Seoul at 7:40 p.m. and arrive in SLC at 4:15 p.m. the same day.

Delta last flew from SLC to Asia (Tokyo's Narita International Airport) in September 2011, Cirium schedules show, making this the first time that SLC has been connected with nonstop flights to Asia in more than a decade.

When the flight launches, it'll become the only direct link from Salt Lake City to Asia, underscoring the importance of this hub for the Delta network. Travelers connecting across the Southwest U.S. will be able to book even more one-stop itineraries to Seoul thanks to this new flight.

This route will become Delta's fifth nonstop to Seoul, joining existing service from Atlanta, Detroit, Minneapolis-St. Paul and Seattle. The new route, as well as Delta's existing service to Seoul, is supported by the airline's partnership with Korean Air.

When to go: These are the best times to buy an international flight

Together, the two airlines serve Seoul from 14 U.S. gateways and offer a slew of connections beyond the South Korean capital to points across Asia. In fact, Delta is the largest long-haul foreign carrier at Incheon.

"As Salt Lake City continues to grow as a vital Delta hub, our strong joint venture with Korean Air allows us to offer unmatched connectivity between the U.S. and Asia, leveraging strong hubs on both sides. This ensures that customers, including those in the interior U.S., have access not just to Seoul but to key destinations across Asia," Joe Esposito, senior vice president of network planning, said in a statement.

Meanwhile, Salt Lake City is one of Delta's key domestic hubs, and the airline offers nearly 250 peak-day departures from SLC to more than 90 destinations, including other transatlantic long-haul routes to Amsterdam, London and Paris. SLC is one of the fastest-growing hubs for Delta, so it'll be interesting to see if the carrier adds even more new routes there in the coming months.

At 5,904 miles, the new route will be the longest from Salt Lake City, more than 800 miles longer than the airport's current longest flight to Paris.

"As we open this new gateway to Asia, I am excited to expand Utah's global reach and foster new cultural and business partnerships. Delta's commitment to our state underscores Utah's growing role on the world stage," said Utah Gov. Spencer Cox in a statement.

This expansion in Seoul comes as Delta doubles down on service to the city as part of its long-term plan for transpacific flying. The airline wants to turn Seoul into its primary gateway throughout Asia, and it's doing so in partnership with Korean Air.

This route is Delta's latest international expansion. Last week, the airline announced its hotly anticipated new transatlantic routes for the summer 2025 season.

The airline is adding seven new routes and one new destination: Catania on the east coast of Sicily.