Title: Dreading a long layover? Here's how to turn it into a second vacation
Source: National Geographic
URL: https://www.nationalgeographic.com/travel/article/extending-your-stay-turning-your-layover-into-a-vacation
--------------------------------------------------

Layovers are an unavoidable part of travel that rarely spark joy. Why? Because they often afford extensive periods of sitting and waiting, or grant you just 30 minutes to sprint across city-sized airports at Olympic speeds to catch the next flight.

Sometimes, it’s a debate of whether seven hours is enough time to go through customs, leave the airport to explore, then come back and go through security again. Occasionally, you’re contending with an awkward 12-hour stretch that may or may not be a great opportunity to explore a city, depending on whether that stretch falls in the middle of the night.

But what if instead of dreading layovers, it was possible to turn them into part of the vacation; something, perhaps, you could even look forward to? Read on to learn how to transform your next layover into an actual vacation.

Why extend a layover

Given how little vacation time most Americans have, it’s not always possible to extend a layover. However, if you can budget in a few more days, the benefits of turning a layover into its own vacation go beyond simply getting to see another city. Considering the cost of flights, being able to work two trips into one flight also eliminates the need to book a second future flight to the layover destination.

Also, consider the benefits of easing jet lag. If you’re traveling internationally, you probably spent a good amount of money on your trip and don’t want to waste your first few days in paradise sleeping off your jet lag. When flying across the world, jet lag can hit hard — taking a multi-day layover lets you begin adjusting to the time difference before reaching your destination.

(Related: Jet lag doesn't have to ruin your trip. Here's what you can do.)

Choosing your layover destination

Price is a factor when choosing a layover destination, both in terms of how affordable the flights are, and also how expensive the layover city is. Many European flights have stopovers in Zurich, Switzerland, but even if you find a cheap flight through Zurich, know that it is one of the most expensive cities in the world.

The same goes for Singapore and Iceland, two excellent layover destinations that are also very pricey. However, while the layover may be costly, this is still a more affordable way to visit one of these destinations, rather than taking a dedicated trip there, as the flight would already be factored into your other trip.

If you only have a couple of days to stay, contemplate how quickly and easily you can explore the top sights. For short layovers, it makes sense to visit somewhere with densely packed attractions so you don’t spend the entire time in a car or on a bus.

For extremely short layovers, consider booking a tour with a company like ToursByLocals; the company offers several hours-long tours with guides who may also be able to pick you (and your luggage) up from the airport and drop you back before your connection.

The timing of your trip can also help determine where you should — or shouldn’t — schedule a layover, such as the Caribbean during hurricane season. Additionally, knowing what significant religious, cultural, or seasonal activities are taking place can impact where you decide to spend extra time.

Amsterdam

A large number of international flights (including U.S.-based airlines like Delta, United, and JetBlue) fly directly to Amsterdam before continuing on to Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. Some of these stopovers include extra-long layovers that are 16-22 hours, which is enough time to explore some of the main attractions without having to book a separate ticket.

Nearly all of the city’s top sights (Van Gogh Museum, Anne Frank House, canal boat rides) are located within its hyper-walkable city center, which makes for efficient exploration. Note that many top museums here sell out months in advance, so book tickets as soon as you have your flight.

Singapore

Singapore’s Changi Airport might even be better known than the destination it’s located in. Tourists flock here to visit its hundreds of eateries and to see thousands of plants adorning a 131-foot indoor waterfall. In fact, so many travelers schedule long layovers here that tour agencies arrange quick city trips right from the airport.

As impressive as the airport (and its food) are, there’s far more to explore in Singapore. Travelers can spend up to 96 hours in Singapore without extra airfare costs, and through Singapore Airlines’ Stopover Holiday Package, travelers can take advantage of free airport transfers and discounts on top attractions and luxury hotels.

New York City

Considering how many direct flights to Africa, Europe, and the Middle East fly out of New York’s JFK Airport, New York City is an extremely popular layover destination for travelers heading from the West Coast. And, because booking a separate roundtrip ticket out of JFK can sometimes save hundreds of dollars per ticket, travelers can redirect those savings toward a vacation in New York.

The same goes on the West Coast, where many direct flights to Asia fly out of Seattle and Los Angeles, making both cities great options for layover vacations.

Dubai

Given how many direct flights leave out of Dubai to Asia, Africa, and elsewhere in the Middle East, it’s also a prime layover location. Dubai’s hometown airline, Emirates, offers direct flights from a dozen U.S. cities, and their Dubai Connect program provides free hotel accommodation, ground transfers, meals, and visa assistance to passengers with layovers between eight and 26 hours.

For longer stays, a separate stopover package is needed, and the Emirates Stopover program offers discounted rates on hotels, experiences, bundle packages, and new flight bookings.

Mexico City

Mexico City — often referred to as CDMX (Ciudad de Mexico) — may be one of the biggest cities in the world, but it’s also one of the easiest to explore. Major airlines offer direct flights here from almost every major U.S. city. Once you’ve arrived in CDMX, it’s a quick hop around the Caribbean or down to Central and South America.

Or, stay longer and explore the vibrant culinary scene and the alternative and artsy side of Mexico City, where many of the top attractions are conveniently located in and around walkable neighborhoods. You can also head an hour north to the Mayan archeological site of Teotihuacan, home to the third-largest pyramid in the world.

(Related: A taste of Mexico City.)

Iceland

Given Iceland's climate, your itinerary could differ dramatically depending on when you visit. While some options — like visiting glaciers, geysers, and thermal baths — are available year-round, summer is the best time for hiking, biking, and puffin-spotting, while winter is the best time to see the northern lights.

Iceland's largest carrier, Icelandair, makes it an even more appealing layover destination with its generous “Stopover in Iceland” package that allows travelers to spend up to seven days in Iceland before flying to Europe.

The website is easy to use and the booking process lets you choose a stopover on one or both legs of the journey, and it even offers suggested one-, two-, and three-day itineraries.