Title: Singapore Airlines Plans $34 Million Investment In Its Changi Airport Terminal 2 Lounges
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/singapore-airlines-plans-34-million-investment-in-its-changi-airport-terminal-2-lounges/
--------------------------------------------------

1.1K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Singapore Airlines operates most of its flights from Terminal 3 at Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). But, the airline also has a presence in Terminal 2. While the lounges in Terminal 3 are great, those in Terminal 2 are a bit dated. Today, the airline announced that it is investing around $34 million to elevate the customer experience and renovate the lounges in Terminal 2.

Renovations began today and will run into 2027. The revamped lounges will add 50% more space and seating capacity along with enhanced food and beverage options and the amenities found in the airline’s flagship lounges in Terminal 3. The lounges will not all shutdown at once (like American Express has done in Mexico City), but will be refreshed in phases. Construction on the new SilverKris First Class Lounge began today and is expected to be completed in Q4 2025. When it’s done, the new SilverKris Business Lounge will be renovated. Finally, the new SilverKris Gold Lounge will be refreshed in the first half of 2026.

The First Class SilverKris Lounge will feature higher ceilings and floor-to-ceiling windows. The renovated bar will offer premium cocktails and barista services in the morning. The live cooking stations in the First Class SilverKris Lounge will serve Singaporean, Asian, and Western dishes. The self-serve buffet will also be expanded to mirror the offerings available in Terminal 3.

The Business Class SilverKris Lounge will expand by 30% and will include a quiet rest area with recliners, a redesigned living room area with wingback chairs, sofa seats, and productivity pods. The expanded self-serve buffet will feature both Asian and Western cuisines. A new full-service bar will serve fresh, barista-made coffee in the morning and signature cocktails in the evening.

The KrisFlyer Gold Lounge will double its capacity and add more seating. It will also add in-lounge restrooms and shower suites.

Yeoh Phee Teik, Senior Vice President Customer Experience at Singapore Airlines, said:

This significant investment underscores Singapore Airlines’ unwavering commitment to elevating the end-to-end travel experience for our customers. Building on the success of our Terminal 3 lounges, we are extending our signature hospitality and thoughtfully curated offerings to Terminal 2. This upgrade reaffirms our continued dedication to providing a seamless, world-class experience that meets the high expectations of our discerning customers.”

Anthony’s Take: I love that Singapore Airlines is making such a big investment in the lounges away from its main operation in Singapore. The new spaces look great and will make the ground experience for eligible passengers even better.

(Image Credits: Singapore Airlines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.