Title: Women's football team arrives in New Zealand for 2023 World Cup
Source: Vietnamplus.vn
URL: https://en.vietnamplus.vn/womens-football-team-arrives-in-new-zealand-for-2023-world-cup/255854.vnp
--------------------------------------------------

Hanoi (VNA) – The Vietnam Football Federation announced that the Vietnamese national women’s football team and head coachMai Duc Chung arrived in New Zealand on July 6 to start their 2023 FIFA World Cupcampaign.

They took three flights from Hanoi to Singapore’s ChangiAirport, then Auckland and Napier for nearly 24 hours. Now, they are in Napiercity where they will play a friendly match with the New Zealandteam, starting their final preparation phase towards the 2023 Women's World Cupin New Zealand and Australia.

Upon arrival at the Auckland airport, the team received awarm welcome from the World Football Federation (FIFA) and local organisers.After taking immigration procedures, the team transferred to a domestic flightto Napier.

The Vietnamese players will have six-day trainingsessions and friendly matches in Napier.

The weather in Napier at this time is still a bit coldwith a temperature of about 14 degrees Celsius. New Zealand is in winter now.

Head coach Chung is not too worried becauseVietnam will have two weeks to get used to the winter in New Zealand. He said the coaching staff will make sure that the players are in the best shapebefore the tournament, online newspaper vnexpress.net reported on July 6morning.

"Before the SEA Games, we trained in the coldweather in Japan then went to Cambodia, a very hot place, but the playersquickly adapted. The weather change from hot to cold is a challenge but not forus only, as other teams will also have to face it," Chung said.

Vietnam will play two friendlies with the hosts NewZealand on July 10 and Spain on July 14 before the World Cup. In the groupstage, Vietnam will play the US on July 22, Portugal on the 27, and theNetherlands on August.

Over the past time, the “golden girls" of Vietnam football have beencrowned SEA Games champions eight times, and won a ticket to the 2024 OlympicFirst Qualifier./.