Title: oneworld launches its 25th anniversary cocktail
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2024/04/22/oneworld-launches-its-25th-anniversary-cocktail/
--------------------------------------------------

At Economy Class and Beyond, we do love a little tipple now and again (and well within moderation). The oneworld alliance is celebrating its 25th anniversary with… a cocktail.

The alliance has partnered with The Connaught in London by serving up a new, signature cocktail to mark its 25th anniversary.

The cocktail is called ‘The 25’. It was poured for the first time inside the Soho Lounge, part of the American Airlines and British Airways Joint Premium Lounges at John F. Kennedy International Airport, Terminal 8, which is available for oneworld Emerald and First Class customers travelling on oneworld member airlines.

Created especially for oneworld’s 25th anniversary by Ago Perrone, Director of Mixology at The Connaught Bar in Mayfair, London, ‘The 25’ cocktail is a subtle blend of London Dry Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Bitter, Mezcal, and a unique oneworld and The Connaught Orange Grove essential oil. Similar to a Negroni, it mixes a timeless Mediterranean character with a Mexican touch to produce a bright spirit and gentle blend with a globetrotting essence.

Also unveiled was a specially curated refreshing mocktail version of ‘The 25’, with a mix of non-alcoholic London Dry Gin, Cranberry Juice, Mediterranean Tonic, and the unique oneworld and The Connaught Orange Grove essential oil.

Both the cocktail and the mocktail will be served in participating First Class lounges across the oneworld network globally, as well as in the new oneworld branded lounges at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport and Incheon International Airport, Seoul, in May-June 2024.

In Quotes

Nat Pieper, oneworld CEO, said:

“We’re raising a glass to our 25th anniversary milestone with these unique mixes for oneworld premium customers.

“We believe ‘The 25’ captures the spirit of adventure which has defined oneworld’s impressive growth over thelast quarter of a century. We’re excited about celebrating in style with our loyal customers in our branded oneworld and First Class lounges around the world.

Inspired by the finest ingredients, ‘The 25’ embodies the essence of oneworld’s commitment to excellence, shared vision, and true collaboration across oneworld member airlines.”

Ago Perrone, Director of Mixology at The Connaught Bar added:

“It was important to create a cocktail which caught the essence of travel and blended with the personality of the oneworld alliance passengers.

“Travel is often a source of inspiration for me, and on this occasion it guided me in the creation of the oneworld cocktail – ‘The 25’ – using a subtle blend of London Dry Gin, Sweet Vermouth, Bitter, Mezcal and The Connaught Orange Grove essential oil, conveying both elegance and sophistication through iconic ingredients of some of the countries that are close to my heart.

“Just one sip of it takes you on a journey that starts from the Mediterranean before landing in Mexico, then going through London to the U.S., making ‘The 25’ a flavoursome cocktail to savour and celebrate.”

Or maybe you’d want to try something else…

Everyone has different tastes in alcohol (mine are biased toward vodka and gin admittedly these days). thankfully oneworld hasn’t forgotten about you, with the group releasing a oneworld signature cocktail and mocktail ebook – a special digital edition of a collection of oneworld member airlines’ signature cocktails and mocktails.

You can download the book at https://www.oneworld.com/the25-oneworld-anniversary-cocktail and scroll towards the bottom.

There are some rather interesting recipes that I’m taking a rather close look at if I am completely honest…

Welcome to Economy Class and Beyond. Your no-nonsense guide to network news, honest reviews, in-depth coverage, unique research, as well as the humour and madness I only know how to deliver.

Our Social Media pool has expanded. You can find us across most networks as @economybeyond on Twitter, Mastodon, BlueSky, Threads and Instagram!

Also, remember that we are part of the BoardingArea community, bringing you the latest frequent flyer news from around the world.