Title: The best and worst airports to have a red-eye flight, according to a travel expert who flies 200,000 miles a year
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/best-worst-airports-red-eye-flights-travel-expert-2024-8
--------------------------------------------------

"Most red-eyes involve jet lag because you're usually crossing a time zone, which is the reason for the red-eye," Ott told BI. "I try to eat before I fly on a red-eye because sleeping on the plane is vital. You want to try to get all the Zs you can."

When it comes to departure airports for night flights, Ott appreciates having healthy food options.

"I don't want to eat greasy fast food before I hop on a plane for six hours," he added. "I like a place that has a Chopped, a sushi kiosk, poke bowls, or anything that's a little bit lighter and easier to manage."

For example, Ott said Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) has various healthy eateries, from the lounges to the food courts.

At LAX, travelers will find soups, salads, smoothies, and avocado toast.

"That's a game changer because then you can eat before you fly and get all the rest you need," he said. "And when you get on the plane, it's just about maximizing the rest."

Ott said that Unlike Stockholm, London Heathrow Airport isn't well-connected, making it a drag for red-eye flights.

"I hate Heathrow for departure for red eyes," he said. "There aren't many of them, but it's just a long grinding airport — everything is disjointed."

At the same time, Ott said Heathrow can be great for arrivals if you're a rewards member of Virgin Atlantic or British Airways — which have lounges exclusively for arriving passengers.

"A great red-eye experience occurs when airlines curate it for frequent flyers or business-class travelers, including what they need when they land," he said.

For example, Virgin Atlantic's arrival lounge offers custom breakfasts and shower suites.

"They have the perfect setup for helping you freshen up," he said. "A lot of red-eye customers are flying for work and don't want to show up to work smelling like a sewer without having brushed their teeth."

Not many small regional airports have red-eye flights, according to Ott.

"For the most part, red-eyes are more focused on those hub cities where they get people from all the regional airports into their big flying hub and then ship them off from there," he said. "Most red-eyes have a transatlantic or transcontinental demand, with very few exceptions."

He added that one of these exceptions is Hollywood Burbank Airport in California, which has red-eye flights to New York.

Hollywood Burbank has fewer food and lounge options than larger hub airports, which Ott understands because regional airports are smaller.

"I think there's just an inherent advantage to being a big airport because big airports can attract retail," he said.

However, it's worth noting that Hollywood Burbank Airport has one of the shortest walks to the gate in the US.

Check out Ott's best tips for air travel on his blog, God Save the Points.