Title: Hamad International Airport in Qatar named world's best airport in 2024, Changi Airport takes 2nd place
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/trending/worlds-best-airport-2024-skytrax-hamad-qatar-changi-singapore-388751
--------------------------------------------------

Qatar's Hamad International Airport in Doha has been named the world's best airport in 2024 by London-based air transport rating organisation Skytrax, with Singapore Changi Airport coming in at second place.

During the award ceremony at the Passenger Terminal Expo 2024 in Frankfurt, Germany, the airport also clinched the titles of world's best airport shopping and best airport in the Middle East.

Hamad International Airport has experienced significant growth in the past decade, with the integration of lifestyle and shopping facilities including Orchard, an indoor garden with a bridge.

In 2023, it enjoyed a 31 per cent increase in passenger traffic, serving over 45 million passengers over 250 destinations.

Second-place winner Singapore Changi Airport – which won the world's best airport award in 2023 – also clinched the titles of best airport in Asia and world’s best airport immigration service. Crowne Plaza Changi Airport was also named world’s best airport hotel, for the ninth time.

Qatar Airways CEO Badr Mohammed Al Meer said of the win: "This is a remarkable achievement for Hamad International Airport, as it celebrates its 10th anniversary of operational excellence, connecting passengers seamlessly from all around the world. It is a testament to the dedication of our team and partners, who have contributed to providing passengers with the finest travel experience. Our continuous investment in our facilities and pioneering initiatives in retail and hospitality has made this achievement possible."

The top 20 airports this year are as follows:

Doha Hamad Airport

Singapore Changi Airport

Seoul Incheon Airport

Tokyo Haneda Airport

Tokyo Narita Airport

Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport

Dubai Airport

Munich Airport

Zurich Airport

Istanbul Airport

Hong Kong Airport

Rome Fiumicino Airport

Vienna Airport

Helsinki-Vantaa

Madrid-Barajas

Centrair Nagoya Airport

Vancouver Airport

Kansai Airport

Melbourne Airport

Copenhagen Airport

Operating since 1999, Skytrax's World Airport Awards are voted by airport customers of over 100 nationalities. The survey evaluates customers' experience across multiple factors including check-in, transfers, shopping and security. This year's survey was conducted between August 2023 and March 2024, and over 570 airports were featured in the survey results.

All entries for the survey are screened, with duplicate or ineligible entries deleted, and no membership subscription or charges are needed to participate in the survey.

Nonetheless, Skytrax has received some criticism over the years with one report in 2015 from a travel industry news site suggesting that the organisation had inflated the figures of its survey participants. Skytrax also received backlash in 2019 after it updated the ratings of certain airlines, including downgrading Turkish Airlines to three stars – prompting those in the aviation community to question Skytrax's ranking methods.