Title: Urgent health alert issued after passenger on Qantas Singapore to Melbourne flight confirmed as Victoria’s latest measles case
Source: Sky News Australia
URL: https://www.skynews.com.au/lifestyle/health/urgent-health-alert-issued-after-passenger-on-qantas-singapore-to-melbourne-flight-confirmed-as-victorias-latest-measles-case/news-story/ab8938fec183c7f6eb411a16bd2a4b8c
--------------------------------------------------

The returned overseas traveller was on board Qantas flight 36 which arrived into Melbourne at 5.25am on Tuesday, June 25 from Singapore's Changi Airport.

Other passengers who were on that flight, and in Melbourne Airport's international arrivals hall between 5.30am and 7.30am on the Tuesday, have been urged to monitor for symptoms of measles until Saturday, July 13.

The individual is the 11th person in Victoria this year confirmed to have the highly infectious viral illness which can potentially result in serious health complications including pneumonia and brain inflammation (encephalitis).

Victoria's health department on Wednesday said the individual also visited a number of sites in the state while infectious.

Public exposure sites listed by the department include the McDonald's on Mickleham Road in Westmeadows (June 25, 7am to 9am) and the Coles in Colac (June 25, 11am to 12pm).

Toyworld Warrnambool (June 26, 3pm to 3.50pm), the Friendly Grocer in Lord Street, Port Campbell (June 27, 11am to 11.40pm and June 28, 6.30pm to 7.30pm) and Port Campbell Hotel (June 28, 5pm to 7pm) are the other public exposure sites.

"Anyone who has attended a listed exposure site during the specified date and time should monitor for symptoms and seek medical care if symptoms develop for up to 18 days after the exposure," the health department said.

"Anyone who presents with signs and symptoms compatible with measles should be tested and notified to the Department of Health.

"There should be an especially high level of suspicion if they have travelled overseas or visited any the sites listed above and are unvaccinated or partially vaccinated for measles."

Symptoms develop between a week and 18 days after exposure and include cough, runny nose, fever, sore or red eyes (conjunctivitis) and feeling generally unwell.

Those symptoms are followed by a red maculopapular rash which usually begins on the face before spreading to the rest of the body.

The health department has also urged individuals planning overseas travel to ensure they have received appropriate vaccinations, including for measles-mumps-rubella.