Title: I've explored the world's most luxurious airport, complete with a butterfly garden and a pool. It's my favorite layover spot.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/singapore-airport-changi-my-favorite-layover-spot-2024-11
--------------------------------------------------

The Changi Skytrain connects terminals 1, 2, and 3, while terminal 4 can be accessed via bus.

Most of the airport's main attractions are in terminals 1 and 3, where I spent most of my time. Terminal 2 was closed during my visit, but it's since reopened with a digital waterfall and sky that mirrors the time of day.

Among the easiest ways to pass the time at Changi is terminal 3's free movie theater, complete with cushioned chairs and a big silver screen.

No ticket is needed — but you have to settle for whatever movie is playing at the time. During my visit, films including "Encanto," "Venom II," and "Fantastic Beasts" were shown on a loop.

There was no shortage of greenery throughout the airport, which is maintained by a team of horticulturalists.

The butterfly garden is one of the main beauty staples inside the transit area. Terminal 3's two-floor enclosure hosts 1,000 butterflies that represent nearly 50 species.

I could watch colorful butterflies snacking on fruit while some were cocooned, waiting to hatch.

While I was too busy exploring to sleep, tired passengers could use the airport's free "snooze lounges," available in every terminal.

The 24/7 space is intended for short naps. For those who want a more private or longer sleeping experience, Changi has lounges and transit-area hotels with nap rooms available for a fee.

One of Changi's on-site hotels is Aerotel in terminal 1. Transit passengers can book a room or pay about $20 for access to the outdoor pool and hot tub. This was my favorite plane-watching spot.

The pool deck overlooks the tarmac, is full of lush greenery and chairs, and hosts a bar, showers, and a gym. The pool opens at noon, but hotel guests can access it earlier.

There was no shortage of food inside Changi, but my favorite spot was Singapore Food Street in terminal 3. Over a dozen individual stalls serve food from countries including Vietnam, China, and Singapore.

I ordered a feast for myself and my travel companions, including dumplings, meat skewers, noodles, vegetables, and Singapore's famous laksa. Everything was delicious.

For those who prefer an American meal, there was a Burger King and a Subway neighboring the market.

I don't have a single designer item in my closet, but that doesn't mean I wasn't impressed with the myriad of luxury stores throughout Changi.

Beautiful Louis Vuitton shops were complete with grand entrances and colorful lighting. Customers could also shop at stores like Dior, Swarovski, and Gucci.

I preferred the local shops such as TWG Tea, where I bought some tea to take home to my family.

Changi hosts Jewel, a giant amusement-park-like garden area with activities, food, and shopping. Flyers have to leave the transit area to explore Jewel and reenter the airport before their connecting flight — though some people visit Jewel as a day trip from the city.

The main attraction in Jewel is the rain vortex, which is seven stories high and the world's tallest indoor waterfall.

Customers visiting Jewel can use the booths or kiosks to book tickets to the various attractions, including a hedge maze, a ropes course, and a topiary walk.

The activities can be fun for adults but are geared toward kids, so Jewel is a perfect place to spend time with children during a long layover.

There were niche perks scattered around the airport, such as terminal 3's koi pond and four-story slide.

There was also a set of bikes that flyers could use for exercise while simultaneously charging their phone.

Flyers with long layovers could take advantage of the free tours available — they just had to register and meet minimum layover time requirements.