Title: Lounge Review: Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao (Singapore Changi Airport Terminal 1) – Entitlement via Priority Pass
Source: Theshutterwhale.com
URL: https://theshutterwhale.com/blog/2023/8/10/lounge-review-crystal-jade-la-mian-xiao-long-bao-singapore-changi-airport-terminal-1-entitlement-via-priority-pass
--------------------------------------------------

While I have departed from Singapore Changi Airport on multiple occasions this year, I have not found the motivation to make the trek down to one of the aforementioned restaurants since the SilverKris Lounge is pretty nice (and honestly, I have got to make full use of my PPS Club membership benefits while I still have it). Since I had a flight out of Singapore on Scoot one afternoon, I decided to drop by the Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao in Terminal 1 (Transit Area) to check out what is on offer for Priority Pass members. Do note that Priority Pass members can only use their lounge entitlement at the Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao in Terminal 1 from 11:30 AM onwards - if you have a morning flight out of Singapore, I recommend the SATS Premier Lounge (which serves sparkling wine) or the Plaza Premium Lounge (which has a decent laksa but average service).

Using your Priority Pass membership at the Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao will give you a complimentary meal - you will have the option of choosing either Combo A, B, or C. Each combo comes with a choice of drink (e.g. a can of soft drink or a cup of Chinese tea), a small soup with two dumplings, and a main course:

Combo A: Chicken Fried Rice

Combo B: Sweet & Sour Fish with Rice

Combo C: Black Pepper Chicken with Rice

Do note that each guest that you bring into Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao will count towards an additional lounge entitlement but he or she will also receive a choice of combo. The Priority Pass membership that you get with your Citi Prestige Card will give you unlimited access (+1 guest) but do note that the membership that you get with The American Express Platinum Card will not allow you to enjoy these non-lounge experiences.

This benefit reminds me of TGM in Terminal 2 in the past where you could enjoy a decent meal with your Priority Pass membership but unfortunately, the quality of food at Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao was fairly unimpressive. While the food was freshly prepared upon order, the Sweet & Sour Fish was average at best. The Chicken Fried Rice on the other hand was actually pretty delicious and it will probably be the combo of choice on subsequent visits.

While the food over at the Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao in Terminal 1 is not worth making a deliberate stop for, it is a nice alternative when you are not flying in a premium cabin or for those instances where you do not have access to amazing lounges like the Qatar Airways Singapore Premium Lounge or the SilverKris Lounge. If I had a limited number of lounge visits and had to choose between say the SATS Premier Lounge and Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao, I would pick the former without a sliver of a doubt.