Title: Taylor Swift Lands At Seletar Airport: An Inside Look At Singapore’s VIP Airport
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/seletar-airport-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

My afternoon in Singapore continued with a drive over to Seletar Airport (XSP), the “other” airport in Singapore that is far less busy than Singapore Changi (SIN). This report happens to coincide with news that Taylor Swift just arrived at this very airport on Tuesday.

An Inside Look At Seletar Airport, The Other Airport In Singapore

Seletar Airport opened in 1928 as RAF Seletar and was used as a defense post when the Japanese invaded British Malaya. The Japanese prevailed in 1942 and occupied Seletar through 1945. Later on during the Malayan Emergency, Seletar was used as a launchpad for strikes against communist insurgents.

After independence from the United Kingdom and later Malaysia, the British handed back Seletar to Singapore in 1971. In 1977, the airport became center sage for a DC-3 hijacking in Vietnam, resulting in the death of two Vietnamese crew members. The hijackers landed in Seletar seeking asylum in Singapore.

With the construction of Changi Airport, Seletar is used for chartered flights and general aviation. Think VIPs like Taylor Swift. There’s only one current commercial operator, Firefly.

On Tuesday, after completing the Australia portion of her The Eras Tour, Swift flew from Sydney to Seletar using a chartered Bombardier Global Express jet (registration 9H-VTD).

Hundreds of fans were waiting for the 34-year-old pop singer she landed. From there, she was whisked off to Sentosa Island, which I coincidentally wrote about earlier today. Swift will be offering several performances in Singapore starting on Saturday.

Let’s take a look inside the airport: it’s like a small-town airport in the USA, only much posher.

There’s easy parking outside. No lines. A single check-in area with flights on Firefly to Subang, Malaysia (SZB) operated on an ATR 72-500 aircraft. SZB is the old Kuala Lumpur International Airport.

There’s a restaurant, lush gardens, and plenty of seating as well.

As an aside, there’s a flight school nearby the airport called Aviation Hub and I got to “fly to New York” in a simulator (thanks to a friend of my friend). That was quite a lot of fun. It has been many years since I have flown. I wish I had more time for this!

CONCLUSION

Singapore Changi may be one of my favorite airports in the world, but Selatar reminded me of a “mini-me” version that is far less hectic. I’m going to have to try flying out of here on a future trip!