Title: American Airlines Adds Two International Routes For CES 2025
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/american-airlines-adds-two-international-routes-for-ces-2025/
--------------------------------------------------

1.7K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

The Consumer Electronics Show (CES) is an annual trade show held by the Consumer Technology Association (from January 7th to 10th in 2025) at the Las Vegas Convention Center. I attended for many years and it’s great to be able to see what technology, gadgets, and innovations are coming next. Airlines generally add nonstop flights for the show and some of those routes are already starting to pop up.

This past January, we saw international flights added by Air France, Asiana, and Delta (more here). American Airlines is first out of the gate this year with two routes added to its offerings. These include flights to/from Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) and:

London Heathrow Airport (LHR)

Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT)

Both of these routes will offer nine roundtrips operated by Boeing 777-200ER aircraft with 37 Business Class, 24 Premium Economy, 66 Main Cabin Extra, and 146 Main Cabin seats.

I expect that we’ll hear announcements from other airlines over the next month or so. Delta announced last year that it was offering its own international flights to Las Vegas Harry Reid International Airport (LAS) from Schiphol Amsterdam Airport (AMS), Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG), and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (more here) for CES 2024.

In past years, United Airlines has added flights to/from places like Boston Logan International Airport (BOS), Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (FLL), Orlando International Airport (MCO), and San Jose Mineta International Airport (SJC).

Anthony’s Take: CES was a big part of my life for almost 20 years. I miss the show and all of the new gadgets. I know I’ll be back again in the future (2025 doesn’t seem likely, but who knows?). I’ll keep an eye out for other announcements from airlines connecting attendees from across the country and around the world with nonstop flights.

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.