Title: Splashy NYC airport hotel makes top 5 of the best in the world
Source: New York Post
URL: https://nypost.com/2026/03/25/lifestyle/nyc-airport-hotel-makes-top-5-of-the-best-in-the-world/
--------------------------------------------------

Fly high at these airport hotels.

Skytrax revealed the world’s best airport hotels for 2026 as part of their World Airport Awards — and a swanky NYC airport hotel made the top five.

The Airport Hotel Awards are based on guest surveys which looked at hotel standards such as overall hotel experience, access to and from the airport to the hotel, reception service, hotel staff, cleanliness, whether it allows for a good night’s sleep, in-room amenities, fitness and spa facilities, food quality, restaurant staff service, value for money and whether guests are treated as a valued customer.

The TWA Hotel at New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport ranked No. 4 worldwide and No. 3 in North America.

The acclaimed hotel operates in the historic TWA Flight Center, designed by architect Eero Saarinen and completed in 1962.

After being abandoned for many years, it reopened in 2019 after renovations as a themed hotel that used the original terminal as the hotel lobby.

The repurposed TWA terminal, which has the same iconic red sunken lounge that it was known for, has a raft of amenities — like the Paris Café by Jean-Georges, which is located in its original location up the curving staircase on the mezzanine level.

Also on the premises is a rooftop infinity pool and observation deck, offering fantastic views of planes taking off and landing. Anyone can snag a day pass, whether or not they’re staying at the hotel. Reservations for the pool, which is open year-round and heated in the winter, can be made through the hotel’s website or via Resortpass, where they are being sold for $50.

Non-guests can also reserve a day pass to the on-site, 24/7 fitness center — which claims to be the world’s biggest hotel gym, at 10,000 square feet — for $25.

The hotel also has a 1958 Lockheed Constellation airplane turned cocktail lounge parked on the TWA Hotel tarmac and curated 1960s aviation-themed museum exhibits by the New York Historical Society.

In first place for the world’s best airport hotels was Crowne Plaza Changi Airport in Singapore. The luxury hotel has 575 soundproofed rooms with runway or airport views, rain showers and premium bedding. The hotel boasts an outdoor pool surrounded by tropical gardens, a whirlpool and sauna, a club lounge, upscale dining options, a 24-hour gym, and even babysitting and childcare services.

The second-best airport hotel worldwide was another American airport hotel, the Grand Hyatt at San Francisco International Airport. Travelers can access the hotel directly from the AirTran, which will lead them right to the lobby. Hotel rooms feature views of the bay and airport through soundproof floor-to-ceiling windows.

In third place was Fairmont Vancouver Airport in Canada, which is located directly above the U.S. departures check-in area, so passengers don’t even have to leave the terminal to get to and from the airport. The property offers a fitness center, pools, saunas, and a bar and restaurant with views of planes on the runway. They also have wellness packages that could include a sound therapy machine and a yoga mat being sent directly to your room.

World’s Best Airport Hotels 2026

Crowne Plaza Changi Airport

Grand Hyatt at SFO

Fairmont Vancouver Airport

TWA Hotel New York JFK

Hyatt Regency Shenzhen Airport

Best Airport Hotels in North America 2026