Title: Oneworld Lounge Hopping In Singapore: A Foodie’s Delight
Source: Liveandletsfly.com
URL: https://liveandletsfly.com/singapore-oneworld-lounges/
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore Changi International Airport is not only home to a number of superb Singapore Airlines lounges, but also five different oneworld lounges, all worth visiting (though some more than others). I enjoyed many delicious meals during my 18-hour layover in SIN.

Dining In Singapore Oneworld Lounges: Many Delicious Options

Let me start by saying that I am not a foodie in the traditional sense of the word. Sure, I can appreciate quality meat or wine or coffee, but I’m not one of those travelers who plan journeys around meals (unless it is to the Na Oh L-1011 restaurant in Bangkok). But I do pack it away…and when I have the prospect of an entire day at an airport filled with superb lounges, then I take advtange of it.

I already detailed the superb late-night dinner I had at the Qatar Airways Premium Lounge in SIN. First, I had buffalo mozzarella drizzled in balsamic vinegar and topped with strawberries.

Then, lamb cutlets.

And finally, berries.

There was a buffet too.

By the time I left it was 1:00 am and I was not particularly in the mood to go into town, so I checked into the Plaza Premium Lounge across the hall and went to sleep.

Next morning, I made the rather arduous journey to Terminal 4 in order to use the Cathay Pacific Lounge. I had the lounge all to myself and enjoyed some seriously delicious Laksa.

That lounge also had a respectable buffet.

I then met up with a friend and we spent a few hours out and about, which I will detail in my full trip report.

Back at the airport, I headed to the Qantas First Lounge, where I enjoyed a lovely late lunch, starting with olives.

Then a chicken breast with sweet potatoes and broccolini along with a side salad.

That was followed by Barramundi wtih polenta, basil, and zucchini sauce…simply sublime.

Then dessert, including a bowl of berries, brownie with ice cream, and a flat white.

It is lounge visits like this that remind me the oneworld Emerald status is the most valuable status in the world.

But my day was not over yet. Next, it was off to the British Airways Lounge. I’ll be honest, I did not eat here…and this looked to be the least impressive of all the oneworld lounges in SIN. There, a buffet awaited…but I was stuffed.

My final stop was at the Qantas Business Lounge, which is not as lush as the first class lounge, but still a very nice lounge with a buffet, bar, barista, and live-cooking station (with laksa).

I also did not eat here.

CONCLUSION