Title: 10 upgrades the FAA says it's making to flying safer
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/faa-upgrades-air-safety-dc-crash-2025-3
--------------------------------------------------

The Federal Aviation Administration said it's rolled out a handful of upgrades to improve the United States' air-traffic control system and make flying safer after a string of incidents heightened flyer anxiety.

Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said in a Tuesday press conference that antiquated air traffic control systems are one of the biggest problems hampering aviation safety — something pilots, airline CEOs, and aviation experts have also long warned about.

Duffy listed several ways the FAA plans to address the gaps, including using artificial intelligence to comb through safety reports and replacing old floppy disks and dated headphone jacks with modern technology.

"It's old, but it's safe," he said. "Looking forward, we don't want to lose lives because we have a break in the system, so it has to be upgraded, and it's going to take money."

He added that the ATC overhaul plan will be rolled out in the next two weeks. His goal is to have a "brand new" air traffic system in three and a half to four years, but it will be built at a pace that balances speed with safety.

Some of the upgrades he mentioned include:

Using AI to analyze data and reports to catch safety trends faster.

Accelerating the implementation of safety programs already started, like those in the FAA's NextGen airspace modernization plan.

Deploying new runway safety technology that doesn't require tower controllers to "use binoculars to see where aircraft are."

Creating new "state-of-the-art" facilities with advanced screens and equipment for controllers.

Replacing copper wires with fiber, introduce more wireless and satellite technology, and improve radar.

Hiring more companies to build new and better infrastructure.

Speeding up air traffic controller hiring and paying trainees more.

Getting funding from Congress up front to begin work on the administration's plan within the next two weeks.

Permanently implementing NTSB's recommendations after the DC crash.

Working with pilots, airline CEOs, and other experts to identify ways to further improve.

ATC changes come after deadly DC crash

The American Airlines crash near Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Washington, DC, in January highlighted potential lapses in ATC — especially as the industry grapples with a controller shortage.

That crash — as well as the Delta Air Lines crash-landing in Toronto in February and others involving smaller airplanes — have made people nervous about flying.

The Trump Administration has vowed to make travel safer — though firings at the FAA have made some experts concerned about the end goal.

Still, Duffy has emphasized the administration's steadfastness in addressing the problems.

He said the FAA is accepting and implementing two "urgent" recommendations from the National Transportation Safety Board issued on Tuesday following the DC crash.

This includes closing Route 4, the helicopter path involved in the crash, when certain runways are in use at Reagan, and finding an alternate helicopter path when Route 4 is closed.

Duffy said he has spoken with Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth about giving the military a route around the original path, in line with the recommendation.

He added that the airspace will be closed to airplanes so special helicopter missions, like presidential transport, can use Route 4 safely.

Duffy said it's essential that the industry learn from its mistakes and be proactive in safety to prevent another crash from happening again.

"I think we can honor those who lost their lives by paying this forward," he said. "We do it by fixing the system and making it better and making it work."