Title: Free Half-Day Tour for Transiting Passengers @ Taiwan
Source: Ozbargain.com.au
URL: https://www.ozbargain.com.au/node/924837
--------------------------------------------------

Similar to the deal for Changi Airport (Singapore), Hong Kong and Incheon Korea, Taiwan also offers a complimentary half-day tour for any passengers that are transiting for long hours (at least 7 hours or more)

Australia is a Visa Exempt country. If you are not Australian and don't have an Australian passport, please make sure you check online to see if you need to apply for a R.O.C. visa.

You have the choice of a guided or self guided tour. If you pick the guided tour, you'll be riding a bus to visit various places. For self guided tours, you can obtain a voucher for Mass Rapid Transit train rides. Grab the Taoyuan Metro ticket at the Taoyuan International Airport Tourist Service Center between 08:30 and 19:00.

If you are a group of more than 4 people, you will need to email halfdaytour@mail.tad.gov.tw to apply.

Who can participate

Transit or transfer passengers with 7- to 24-hour layovers before their next connecting flight, who have valid R.O.C. visas or come from countries eligible for visa-exempt entry.

For detailed qualification and application information, please refer to the website of the National Immigration Agency: https://niaspeedy.immigration.gov.tw/nia_southeast

Registrants must print out the "Travel Authorization Certificate", which is required for both arrival and departure immigration inspection in Taiwan.

Travel documents required

Passport, valid for at least 6 months

Completed immigration embarkation/disembarkation card available at immigration counter

Guided tour via tour bus

There are 18 seats for online pre-registration; please book the tour online from 5 to 90 days prior to passengers’ arrival. We will make a reservation for you if you are eligible.

Each tour is limited to 18 passengers, and passengers can join only one tour during each stopover. In addition to the pre-registration noted above, if seats are available we also offer same-day on-site reservations upon arrival in Taiwan. Please kindly check for availability at the Tourist Service Centers located in the arrival lobbies of Terminal 1 and Terminal 2 of the Taoyuan International Airport.

For these same-day reservations, travelers are required to register online before boarding the tour bus. To participate in the morning tour, ensure that your flight arrives before 07:00 and departs after 15:00.

For the afternoon tour, make sure your flight arrives before 13:00 and departs after 20:30. To avoid having passengers miss their departure flights, we don’t accept morning tour registration for passengers who are scheduled to depart before 3:00 pm on the day of the tour. We also don’t accept afternoon tour registration for passengers who will depart before 8:30 pm on the same day.

1.As there is no room for luggage on the bus, please store all luggage at the airport baggage service counter (fee required) before boarding the bus.

2.The Tourism Administration reserves the right to cancel tours in case of inclement weather.

Self-guided tour (includes itinerary and limited mass MRT Voucher)

Please book your tour online from 5 to 90 days prior to your arrival. We will make a reservation for you if you are eligible. Passengers can join only one tour during each stopover.