Title: Think Shenzhen is only for business travellers? A stay at this new luxury hotel might convince you otherwise
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnaluxury.channelnewsasia.com/experiences/conrad-shenzhen-china-review-241556
--------------------------------------------------

Eyes squinting, I am trying in vain to split hairs. More precisely, I am attempting to divide a strand of silk thread into even finer strands so that I can try my hand at Guangzhou embroidery, a style that is particularly known for its intricate craftsmanship.

But even under the careful guidance of master artist Wang Xinyuan, my clumsy fingers refuse to cooperate. Deciding to leave this to the experts, I instead watch in amazement as Wang demonstrates how he can split a silk thread into 128 strands so fine they can barely be perceived by the naked eye. He explained that using such fine wisps of coloured silk threads is necessary to create the hyperrealistic and fine images typical of this embroidery.

His official title is inheritor of Guangzhou embroidery for his role in preserving this piece of China’s cultural heritage. For patrons of the arts with deeper pockets, his completed masterpieces sell for a cool S$100,000. At the same time, he also conducts workshops, such as our private hand fan embroidery session held at the newly opened five-star Conrad Shenzhen, to make this craft more accessible to the next generation of art lovers.

Who knew there were such pockets of elevated artistic inspiration in Shenzhen, which is more commonly known as an economic hub thanks to its status as a Special Economic Zone in China.

But this relatively young city – it was established only in 1980 – is growing in reputation for its cultural and culinary offerings. For instance, just last year, Wang established a school in Shenzhen to teach the art of embroidery to up-and-coming students.

A good starting point to gain insights into where the city is headed is the recently launched Conrad Shenzhen, which is located in the city’s newer Qianhai business district. This futuristic neighbourhood, which features a skyline filled with skyscrapers, is where China’s Tencent is currently constructing a raft of new buildings – a sign that the district is likely to become even busier in the future.

In the meantime, the 328-key hotel designed by international design firm YABU Pushelberg – the firm behind The Londoner and The Edition in London and Park Hyatt New York – is one of the newer additions to the district. Conceived to offer an elegant reprieve from the surrounding urban bustle, the hotel features a fascinating curation of modern art, many of which have been specially commissioned for the hotel.

The calming aesthetics immediately sooth the senses and welcome travel-weary jetsetters. For instance, the reception lobby, which draws from traditional Chinese buildings, features wall partitions inspired by sliding doors. Chen Yun, a stunning architectural sculpture by local artist Huang Qicheng, blends the eight schools of Chinese architecture and takes anchor position right at the front desk for a fitting welcome.

In fact, there are some 100 art pieces on display throughout the 23-floor hotel, including 17 major works from notable local artists, making us feel like we have checked into an art museum.

Besides art, Shenzhen is also coming into its own as a culinary destination. In part due to its proximity to Hong Kong, which is about 30 minutes via high speed train, a number of chefs from the city’s Michelin-starred restaurants have opened restaurants in Shenzhen. (Singapore Airlines has also recently resumed direct four hours flights between Changi Airport and Shenzhen.)

The Hong Kong-based chefs include Antimo Maria Merone of one-Michelin starred Italian restaurant Estro in and Ricardo Chaneton of one-Michelin starred Mono. In Shenzhen, the former has opened Italian restaurant Terra Madre and the latter launched Spanish meets South American restaurant Mesa.

Also of note is Ensue, ranked 31 on Asia’s 50 Best Restaurants 2023 list. Led by Canadian chef Miles Pundsack-Poe, it blends Californian farm-to-table dining and techniques with Cantonese flavours through the use of almost 100 per cent locally sourced ingredients.

Or for those whose culinary preferences lean more local, Shenzhen is also home to several fine dining restaurants that are featured on the Black Pearl Guide, China’s Michelin Guide equivalent that is said to be more representative of the local luxury dining market.

There is Avant, which is popular in Shenzhen for blending global culinary techniques, locally sourced ingredients and traditional Chinese flavours; as well as fine dining Cantonese restaurant Yue Hai Hui.

CH'AO, Conrad Shenzhen’s own Chinese restaurant holds its own in this burgeoning fine dining scene too. Helmed by veteran executive chef Owen Ou, who previously led two Michelin starred Jiang in Guangzhou, this contemporary restaurant specialises in local Chaoshan cuisine which encompasses regional specialities from Shantou, Chaozhou and Jieyang. The menu focuses on seasonal ingredients but there are also must-try signature dishes for those who are new to this cuisine.

These include the crispy fried chicken with flax seed, crispy roasted pigeon or a comforting double boiled dried scallop, sea whelk and Teochew basil broth. Or for something more unique that showcases the chef’s creativity, order the delicate baked lobster served with handmade rice cakes stewed in a velvety rice wine broth that is bursting with complex sweet, umami and bitter flavours.

Just across the road from the hotel is the modern Wanxiang Tiandi shopping mall – check out the upscale Ole supermarket for an eye popping display of fresh, premium local fruits that would hold their own against fancy Japanese and Korean produce. The mall and its surrounding vicinity is also home to many stylishly designed third-wave coffee joints for those who fancy a solid cuppa in this tea-drinking country.

About 30 minutes drive from the Qianhai area is the fascinating Dafen Oil Painting Village, once heralded as the “world’s art factory” for its prolific output of reproductions of famous paintings. But over the past decade, a slowing demand for replicas has led to the artists’ enclave focusing on developing their own creativity and today, the charming hamlet is more akin to an art park.

There are plenty of studios where artists will happily show you their studios and original works, which often feature an interesting range of styles including calligraphy and Chinese painting. Some studios, like the One Painting One World Oil Painting Gallery also offer painting sessions where one could spend a few hours picking up a few new techniques.

The Dafen Art Museum is another highlight. Designed by Chinese architectural firm Urbanus, this sleek building showcases the best original works by local artists – a harbinger of the artistic potential that can be discovered in the vicinity.

Back in the Conrad Shenzhen after a hectic day out, I take time to enjoy the sunset from my very comfortable 56 sq m Bay View Executive King Bedroom. It is so spacious, it can accommodate a full sized settee and dining table, work desk and marble tiled bathtub.

I admire how the sophisticated colour palette of muted tan, copper and rose tones echo the hues of the setting sun while the masterful lighting design and curved lines of the interior decor enhance this tranquil sanctuary. Amazed at the sense of wellness I feel even in a bustling city, there is only one thing left for me to do – I mix myself a cocktail from the turndown kit that housekeeping has thoughtfully left in my room and run myself an indulgent bubble bath.