Title: The US is urging Americans to leave 14 Middle Eastern countries amid the Iran conflict. Here's what's happening in each.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/state-department-list-middle-east-countries-iran-3-2026
--------------------------------------------------

Americans across the Middle East have been thrown into travel chaos after the US urged them to depart 14 nations in the region immediately.

The unusually urgent move by the US State Department came after retaliatory attacks from Iran hit multiple neighboring US allies and US military installations across the region.

Americans in 14 Middle Eastern countries should "DEPART NOW" via any commercial means available due to "serious safety risks," the US State Department shared in an X post on March 2.

On March 1, the US and Israel launched Operation Epic Fury against Iran, striking military targets in the country and killing the nation's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

In the days since, Iran has launched retaliatory strikes in Bahrain, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates, among other nations.

The escalating conflict, which President Donald Trump said on Sunday could last "four or five weeks," has resulted in widespread airspace closures and travel chaos in the region.

For Americans in the region, securing their exit following the State Department's advice hasn't been easy.

Some US embassies across the region said Tuesday that they're "not in a position" to help Americans evacuate.

Multiple countries, including the UK, Italy, and France, have chartered private flights to evacuate their citizens from the region, and US officials said they were exploring similar options.

On Tuesday, Trump said that "more than 9,000 Americans have safely returned home from the Middle East" in a post on Truth Social.

"The Department will identify where you are, and provide travel options to you," he added, encouraging citizens in the region to contact the State Department.

"We are already chartering flights, free of charge, and booking commercial options, which we expect will become increasingly available as time goes on," he wrote.

Meanwhile, many other Americans who have built their lives in these nations are experiencing the military conflict firsthand.

See the full list of countries the US has urged its citizens to leave and how they've been affected by the escalating US-Iran conflict.