Title: Eastsiders reminded about 5km Changi Airport drone restriction
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/drone-unmanned-aircraft-changi-airport-flying-restrictions-caas-4285216
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) will be intensifying efforts to raise awareness and remind the public of the risk that unlawful drone operations pose to aviation and public safety.

The aviation agency, together with the People's Association, will target HDB residents in Pasir Ris-Punggol, Tampines and East Coast - estates within 5km of Changi Airport.

This is where unlawful unmanned aircraft operations pose the highest risk to airport operations, CAAS said in a media release on Tuesday (Apr 23).

Through banners, posters and digital display panels at lift lobbies, the campaign will remind residents that flying drones in their estates without a permit is not allowed

CAAS will also work with the management corporation (MCST) of condominiums within 5km of Changi Airport. Examples of condos within the limit include those like Eastpoint Green in Simei and Pasir Ris 8.

"CAAS will provide additional advisory letters to the condominium when an offender is caught within the premises of the estate," it said.

"Members of the public are reminded to check the OneMap.sg website or the OneMap app for information on areas where the conduct of aerial and unmanned aircraft activities is prohibited or requires a permit," said CAAS.

In 2023, CAAS took enforcement actions against 309 cases of unlawful unmanned aircraft operations. Eight individuals and seven companies were prosecuted in court, and were fined between S$4,000 and S$45,000.

CAAS has put up additional "No UA flying" (unmanned aircraft) signs at open fields and parks, which have already been identified as common drone-flying areas within 5km of Changi Airport.

As part of enforcement efforts, more auxiliary police officers will be deployed in these hotspots. The officers are also trained to explain and educate the public on the dangers of flying drones close to Changi Airport, CAAS added.