Title: Delta Air Lines Expands One Stop Security for Flights Landing From Seoul
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/delta-air-lines-expands-one-stop-security-for-flights-landing-from-seoul/
--------------------------------------------------

1.3K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Delta recently began offering One Stop Security (OSS), which enables international passengers arriving from London Heathrow Airport (LHR) at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) the ability to clear US customs and immigration at their arrival gate without needing to claim and recheck checked bags or pass through TSA security. Upon landing, they are cleared and can head to their arrival gate. This eliminates one of the biggest hassles for connecting passengers: clearing immigration/customs, collecting bags, and going back through security. And, it’s now being expanded to include Delta and Korean Air flights arriving from Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN).

Travelers flying on select Delta and Korean Air routes with onward connections are now benefiting from this more efficient process at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL). This initiative was developed in collaboration with Korean and UK governments and US Customs and Border Protection. It can save travelers 25 to 45 minutes during their connections. This will soon expand to all Delta flights arriving at the airport from London Heathrow Airport (LHR). Passengers must be enrolled in Global Entry or use the Mobile Passport Control app to qualify.

Greg Forbes, Delta’s Managing Director of Airport Experience, said:

No one better connects the world than Delta, and we want to make your connections – and travel experience as a whole – smoother, smarter and more efficient at every step of the journey. These initiatives rolling out and expanding this summer are big steps towards delivering on that promise.”

In addition to One Stop Security (OSS), Delta is also expanding two other programs: App Bag Drop and TSA PreCheck Touchless ID. Passengers who checked in on the app and just need to print bag tags and drop their bags, can now skip the wait with expedited “App Bag Drop” experience. This will come to all Delta hubs by the end of the year and is currently available at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL), Boston Logan International Airport (BOS), Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW), and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA). Additionally, Delta will continue to partner with the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to further roll out TSA PreCheck Touchless ID (formerly known to customers as Delta Digital ID). Eligible SkyMiles Members who opt-in to move through dedicated bag drop and security lines without presenting a traditional photo ID will see time savings of up to 60% faster than standard TSA PreCheck® (with automated ID verification cutting processing times to just seven to 10 seconds).

To be eligible, a Delta passenger must:

Have the Delta app

Be a TSA PreCheck® member

Be a SkyMiles member

Have passport information and a Known Traveler Number stored in their Delta profile

Anthony’s Take: I love all of these time-saving, tech-forward initiatives. Delta gets kudos for all that it’s doing to make the airport experience more seamless and faster.

(Image Credits: danielfela via iStock and Delta Air Lines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.