Title: Chinese Man Charged In Singapore After Stealing US$23,000 From Several SCOOT Passengers
Source: Loyaltylobby.com
URL: https://loyaltylobby.com/2023/12/21/chinese-man-charged-in-singapore-after-stealing-us23000-inflight-from-several-scoot-passengers/
--------------------------------------------------

A Chinese national has been charged with multiple counts of theft by Singapore authorities as he was caught red-handed stealing from the baggage of several other passengers during a SCOOT flight from Vietnam to Singapore.

The man blatantly went through the belongings of other passengers during the three-hour daytime flight and managed to find several pieces of baggage with substantial amounts of cash which he promptly swiped.

I find it rather odd how this guy managed to identify bags that ended up having plenty of cash stowed in a somewhat accessible way, let alone move around the cabin and go through overhead bins at places where he’s not seated.

As Channel News Asia reported, the bounty of his crime spree that morning amounted to S$31,000 (US$23,260) from three victims.

A man allegedly stole around S$31,000 (US$23,260) from three passengers during a Scoot flight from Vietnam to Singapore.

Zhang Xiuqiang, a 52-year-old Chinese national, was handed three counts of theft in a district court on Monday (Dec 18), read with the Tokyo Convention Act for offences on Singapore-controlled planes.

According to charge sheets, Zhang stole from three people between 9.30am and 12.30pm on Dec 16, while on board Scoot flight TR305.

The flight was en route from Ho Chi Minh City to Changi Airport.

Zhang allegedly stole cash of S$50 and 510 million Vietnamese dong (S$28,000) from a black haversack bag belonging to a Tan Chin Kwang.

He also allegedly took US$1,000 and S$930 from an envelope in a grey bag belonging to Park Sanggu, and S$600 and 3 million Vietnamese dong from the backpack of a person named Lim Janus.

Zhang was remanded for investigations and will return to court on Dec 22.

If convicted of theft, he could face up to three years’ jail, a fine, or both per charge.

It’s surprising how many people travel with rather large amounts of cash on this budget flight from Ho Chi Minh to Singapore, but even more remarkable is how this guy managed to find his victims and score.

If he can identify his victims with such a success rate, it’s obvious that this guy is a career criminal who has been doing this for quite some time, and this wasn’t his first rodeo.

A CNN article has a few more details about how his arrest came about:

… An airline spokesperson told CNN that it “was aware of an incident” that occurred on board a flight from Ho Chi Minh City to Singapore on December 16.

“Our cabin crew was alerted by a passenger to a suspected theft in the cabin and activated the Airport Police Division,” the spokesperson said. “The involved passengers were escorted off the aircraft by airport authorities for further investigation, and disembarkation proceeded as usual for the rest of our passengers.” …

So either someone spotted the guy going through baggage and/or discovered that money was missing.

Either way, the culprit was able to be identified, and the goods were found on him. Hopefully, the Singapore justice system is going to deal with this guy swiftly and put him away for some time. I’m not sure that will help a lot in terms of safety because this happens with such frequency that it must be part of organized crime.

Theft on airplanes has become rather common, and for some reason, it seems to be extremely prevalent with Chinese nationals.

A few years ago, I reported on a similar case that occurred in Thailand:

Bangkok Post: “Chinese passenger arrested at Suvarnabhumi for theft on plane”

In 2018, the South China Morning Post published an article about the Chinese embassy in Prague, which issued a warning as passenger baggage had been repeatedly pilfered on a Hainan Airlines flight.

And then in the spring of this year, another Chinese thief made the very bad mistake of pickpocketing Ugandan passengers on an Ethiopian Airlines flight:

It seems like the cabin crew had their hands full to prevent the passengers from taking matters into their own hands and dealing with the criminal right there on the spot. You can tell from the video the mood is tense, and this guy wouldn’t have gotten off the plane with all body parts intact.

Trying to rob some burly Ugandan guys must be a strong contender for the Darwin Award 2023.

Have you ever encountered suspicious situations onboard a plane that appeared like pilferage attempts?

Conclusion

A Chinese passenger was yet again caught stealing from passengers on a commercial flight, this time onboard SCOOT Airlines from Ho Chi Minh to Singapore. The culprit was identified by passengers and cabin crew and then handed over to Singapore Police upon arrival, who recovered the stolen cash.

I’m not so sure if these men act on their own initiative or if they’re being trained by criminal cartels in China and then sent out to commit these crimes. It’s too obvious that it always seems to be Chinese passengers who are being caught doing this. I don’t believe for a moment that Chinese people by themselves are inherently more criminal than other nationals, so the frequency is more an indicator that organized crime is at play here.

Always make sure you keep valuables close by and your baggage as secure as possible. Don’t stow baggage far away from you when sitting on a plane, and keep the wallet in your side pocket.

I almost learned this the hard way back in 2007 when my wallet was missing at the end of a Lufthansa Economy flight to Detroit, I asked a lady sitting next to me if she had gathered up my wallet by mistake, and sure enough, it was in her purse. However, I believe it was an honest mistake as it must have slid onto the empty middle seat, where she also had a bunch of stuff lying around.