Title: Korea Air and Westjet deepen codeshare ties
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2024/04/23/korea-air-and-westjet-deepen-codeshare-ties/
--------------------------------------------------

Korean Air and Westjet of Canada are deepening their codeshare relationship, to provide more transpacific destinations to its customers.

Korean Air will begin selling flights on WestJet’s new route between Seoul Incheon and Calgary, which will launch on 17th May 2024. Flights on the newly launched Seoul Incheon – Calgary route will operate three times a week using Boeing 787 Dreamliners.

In return, WestJet customers will gain access to flights operated by Korean Air to six new destinations – Bangkok, Da Nang, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Hong Kong and Singapore – via Korean Air’s hub at Seoul Incheon Airport.

In Quotes

Tae Joon Kim, Korean Air Senior Vice President and Head of International Affairs & Alliance said:

“We are excited to announce an expanded codeshare with our longstanding partner WestJet, offering our valued customers access to a wide range of transpacific destinations,”

“The launch of WestJet’s Calgary – Seoul Incheon route will bolster connectivity between Korea and Canada, while our strengthened partnership will seamlessly connect customers to an expanded array of Asian and Canadian cities through our hubs in Incheon and Calgary, respectively.”

Jeff Hagen, WestJet Vice-President of Commercial Development and Strategic Partnerships.

“As we prepare for WestJet’s inaugural flights between Calgary and Incheon, the timing of this codeshare expansion is ideal. We are enhancing connectivity to more destinations in Asia for our guests and WestJet Rewards members from one of the world’s busiest cities, and Korean Air’s global hub,”

“Our longstanding reciprocal partnership with Korean Air opens up exciting opportunities for leisure and business travellers to more locations in the Asian continent and offers new guests in Asia access to all of Canada through our global hub in Calgary.”

A growing partnership

Korean Air and Westjet first codeshared in June 2012, with the new codeshare expansion increasing this to 36 routes shared by the two airlines.

Since then, the codeshare has expanded, covering Korean Air’s flights from Seoul Incheon to Vancouver and Toronto, WestJet’s domestic routes within Canada and flights to/from the United States via Vancouver and Toronto.

For those seeking connectivity via Canada, or wish to explore Canada from other than the traditional entry points of Vancouver, Montreal and Toronto, the new route and codeshare could provide a tempting option.

Welcome to Economy Class and Beyond. Your no-nonsense guide to network news, honest reviews, in-depth coverage, unique research, as well as the humour and madness I only know how to deliver.

Our Social Media pool has expanded. You can find us across most networks as @economybeyond on Twitter, Mastodon, BlueSky, Threads and Instagram!

Also, remember that we are part of the BoardingArea community, bringing you the latest frequent flyer news from around the world.