Title: Tribute Portfolio Debuts in Korea With the Opening of The Link Seoul in Sindorim
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/announcement/41011647.html
--------------------------------------------------

Tribute Portfolio, part of Marriott Bonvoy's global portfolio of over 30 extraordinary hotel brands, today announced the opening of The Link Seoul, a Tribute Portfolio Hotel in the dynamic district of Sindorim in Seoul.

True to the Tribute Portfolio DNA of captivating design, the arrival experience at The Link Seoul starts with its striking reception lobby, which incorporates sleek modern Scandinavian design, fashion, art, and traditional Korean elements, elevating the hotel check-in experience. The design of The Link Seoul reflects connections between travelers and the local community, as well as respect for the area's history as a textile industry hub, with the threads of connection breathing life into the fabric of the hotel. High ceilings, a custom feature glass wall, and architectural modular furniture combine to create a memorable start to an extraordinary hotel stay for its guests.

The hotel features 141 guest rooms, including 16 suites and a Presidential Suite, set across 19 floors. The modern design narrative continues into the guest rooms, featuring marble walls, light wood veneers, and powder-coated metal details to create warm and restful spaces to retreat to after a day of exploration and the exuberance of Seoul.

Dining experiences at The Link Seoul feature a fusion of local and international culinary favorites. The hotel's all-day restaurant, FRAME, located on the 12th floor, has a casual and relaxed atmosphere with its Nordic-style interior. Located on the 13th floor of the hotel, PUNCH is a modern beer pub with a glass ceiling that overlooks the swimming pool. In the ground floor lobby area, DIGM is a sophisticated lounge bar that offers the ideal setting for connecting and socializing. For quick bites and a fresh cup of hot coffee, ZAG is a cozy bakery and café with a lively Scandinavian aesthetic. The hotel also offers a well-equipped fitness center located on the 13th floor for guests who enjoy maintaining their fitness routine on the road.

Meetings and events are made memorable at The Link Seoul, with modern venues such as The Link Hall, a 760 square meter grand ballroom that can accommodate up to 500 guests. The Link Hall features a soaring 10-meter-high ceiling with a black-toned design and is equipped with cutting-edge audiovisual systems to impress guests on all occasions. Two smaller venues, the 147 square meter Meeting Room 1 and the 107 square meter Meeting Room 2, are entirely customizable to accommodate events of up to 100 people. For smaller meetings, a boardroom is also available. All meeting venues are equipped with the latest video conferencing systems, including high-resolution projectors, smart TVs, and ultra-fast internet connections.

The new hotel is the close to the city's Gocheok Sky Dome, South Korea's top concert venue, making it the ideal destination for global K-pop fans with its vibrant social scene, bold design, and spirited spaces. Strategically located between Guro Station on Line 1 and Sindorim Station on Lines 1 and 2 of the Seoul Subway, The Link Seoul offers convenient access to attractions in the southwestern region of the city, including many shop-till-you-drop malls such as NC Department Store Sin-Guro Branch. The nearby Mullae Art Village, a hotspot showcasing ironworks and art, is another popular hangout destination for next-gen locals and travelers alike. The hotel is located approximately 50 kilometers, or about a 45-minute drive, from Incheon International Airport, the main international airport serving Seoul.