Title: Flying has turned into a fiasco
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/bi-today-newsletter-airtravel-difficult-tsa-2026-3
--------------------------------------------------

Want to get back at someone? Book them a flight somewhere.

These days, that can be a pretty brutal experience. And that's before you even step foot on an airplane.

Security lines at some airports are up to three hours long due to a shortage of TSA agents. The issue stems from the partial government shutdown, which started at the end of January. TSA agents are now getting empty paychecks, and some are calling in sick.

Add in the fact that it's Spring Break season, and you have a recipe for disaster. (Check out some of the photos of the chaos.)

It's led to plenty of finger-pointing. On X, the Department of Homeland Security, which oversees the TSA, dubbed it "SPRING BREAK UNDER SIEGE," calling it "the Democrats' DHS shutdown." CEOs of America's biggest airlines chastised Congress, saying in an open letter that it was "simply unacceptable" for TSA officers to receive $0 paychecks.

In the meantime, some airports are looking for donations to help cash-strapped TSA employees.

The TSA drama might surprise some. While airports in Houston, New Orleans, and Atlanta are in turmoil, others are doing relatively fine. A quick scan on Monday afternoon of NYC's three major airports shows no major security delays. (That's right, things at Newark are fine. What a time to be alive.)

Here's a rundown on how to see if your airport is struggling, and some advice for navigating the chaos.

TSA isn't the only issue for high fliers.

Making it through security unscathed doesn't mean you're home free. The Iran war continues to pose problems for airlines. A drone strike near Dubai International Airport on Monday forced at least 65 flights to be diverted to 34 airports. We mapped out all the chaos.

It's the latest complication for a region trying to establish a return to normalcy amid the ongoing conflict. Restricted airspace and the constant threat of attacks have complicated that process. And with the Middle East often serving as a hub for flights between Europe, Asia, Africa, and Australia, the implications are global.

Even if you're not flying anytime soon, you're not in the clear. The war's impact on oil prices means ticket prices are rising. We charted how three major US airline routes are trending upward.

Maybe all of this means we're entering the summer of the staycation. You don't have to wait in line for security when you're just heading to your backyard.