Title: Flight operations at Srinagar airport to be restricted between April-July
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/flight-operations-at-srinagar-airport-to-be-restricted-between-april-july/articleshow/129847217.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Flight operations at Srinagar International Airport will be restricted daily until 5 pm. This is due to runway works scheduled from April to July. The Airport Authority of India confirmed the temporary change. While operating hours reduce, flight movements are expected to increase as per the Summer Schedule. Airlines will adjust flight plans within the new timings.

Srinagar: Flight operations at Srinagar International Airport will be restricted between April and July for carrying out runway works, Airport Authority of India (AAI) said on Friday.

According to a NOTAM (Notice to Airmen) issued by the Indian Air Force, runway works commencing in the first week of April will temporarily restrict operational hours for scheduled flights until 5 pm from April 6, to July 31, the AAI Srinagar posted on its officials X handle.

Also Read: Changi Airport Group seeks project opportunities in India: Chairman

It said at present, as many as 60 flight movements (arrivals and departures) operate daily between 8 am and 10 pm at Srinagar airport.

"While the watch hours will be reduced, flight movements are expected to increase in line with the DGCA-approved Summer Schedule. Airlines will plan and operate flights accordingly within the revised timings," the AAI said.

Live Events

It said AAI remains committed to ensuring safe, efficient, and seamless travel.Also Read: This airport is named the world's best for second consecutive year

"Passengers are advised to stay updated through official channels and avoid unverified information," it said.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless