Title: Hawaiian Airlines Officially Announces Nonstop Flights Between Seattle and Seoul
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/hawaiian-airlines-officially-announces-nonstop-flights-between-seattle-and-seoul/
--------------------------------------------------

2.1K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Back in December, I wrote about how Hawaiian Airlines was adding flights to Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) in May and September, respectively. Today, Hawaiian officially announced the new flights to South Korea.

With the merger of Alaska Airlines and Hawaiian Airlines, the two airlines are aligning their operations more and more each day. In December, Hawaiian revealed that it was ending flights between Austin-Bergstrom International Airport (AUS) and Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL). Many speculated that Hawaiian would use the Airbus A330-200 that was flying the route to add international flights and they were right.

Daily flights to/from Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) are slated to start on September 12th. The route will use an Airbus A330-200 aircraft with 18 Business Class, 18 Economy Comfort, and 192 Economy Class seats. This will change to a Boeing 787 at some point in the future.

By 2030, Hawaiian and Alaska Airlines plan to serve at least 12 nonstop international destinations from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA). Alaska’s Seattle hub is the largest airline hub on the West Coast and it offers 104 nonstop destinations across North America.

Andrew Harrison, Chief Commercial Officer at Alaska Airlines, said:

With our robust network, we can connect our guests through our global gateway in Seattle for convenient nonstop service to Seoul and Tokyo, with additional connections to other Asian destinations with our global partners. As we grow our global network from Seattle in the coming years, we’ll announce new international routes to dynamic destinations that we know our guests are going to love to visit.”

The new flights between Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) will launch just before the start of Chuseok, which is also known as Korean Thanksgiving Day.

Anthony’s Take: Alaska and Hawaiian are continuing to work together to best utilize aircraft, gates, and more. It’s great to see new routes and added competition on international flights.

(Image Credits: Hawaiian and Alaska Airlines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.