Title: We Finally Visited the World’s Coolest Airport
Source: allears.net
URL: https://allears.net/2026/04/04/we-finally-visited-the-worlds-coolest-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

In 2026, Disney has already debuted a few major new offerings that the AllEars team has literally been around the world exploring! And one of the coolest things we saw during our travels was…an airport?!

On March 10th, 2026, the 7th ship in Disney Cruise Line’s fleet, the Disney Adventure, officially set sail on her maiden voyage out of Singapore. In honor of the exciting occasion, we flew to Singapore to check out everything the new ship has to offer. But our adventure kicked off before we even got to the ship, thanks to the most AMAZING airport we’ve ever seen!

We flew into Singapore’s Changi Airport for our cruise on the Disney Adventure, and we instantly concluded that this is the ONLY correct way to design an airport! The atmosphere at Changi Airport is incredible — it’s beautifully designed with tons of lush greenery. And we even found some Disney touches, like this Baymax topiary that would fit right in at the EPCOT Flower & Garden Festival!

Speaking of Disney touches, they also had a Captain Mickey statue displayed with a countdown to the maiden voyage of the Disney Adventure.

But the true star of the airport is the Jewel Rain Vortex, the world’s tallest indoor waterfall. Seriously, we can’t believe this gorgeous view is inside an airport!

The waterfall looks incredible regardless of what time of day you visit, with water cascading 7 stories down to the basement. Plus, it’s surrounded by more greenery, which makes the whole place feel so soothing and immersive. Just the cure for a stressful day of traveling!

And, as if the waterfall itself wasn’t enough of an attraction, it also has a music and light show that takes place after dark each night!

The light shows currently happen at 8 PM and 9 PM each night, with an additional 10 PM show on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. The show took our breath away and gave us serious World of Color vibes!

And since the waterfall is in the center of a large area, there were plenty of vantage points to enjoy it from.

Honestly, the Singapore Airport was so amazing, we almost didn’t want to leave it for our cruise! (Spoiler alert: We did, and it was obviously TOTALLY worth it.) We found plenty of other awesome spots and hidden gems from our recent travels around the world that we can’t wait to share with you, so stay tuned to AllEars for more!

I Explored All 7 of the Lands on the Disney Adventure, and It Was Better Than I Imagined

Have you ever been to the Singapore Changi Airport? Share your experience in the comments!