Title: My last trip to Thailand
Source: Squarespace.com
URL: http://doug-johnson.squarespace.com/blue-skunk-blog/2025/12/14/my-last-trip-to-thailand.html
--------------------------------------------------

About to start the bike ride

One can read the title of this blog post in two ways - that this was either my most recent or my final visit to this remarkable country. Time will tell which is correct. I have now visited Thailand (to the best of my reconning), eight times with five of those times going to conferences or for consulting. It is a country which seems to have changed over time - or at least my perceptions of it.

The was large enough for five passengers, our bikes, and our luggage.

I got home last evening, about six hours later than planned due to late flights, deicing of planes, and a rebooked flight. But I got home. I spent a whole day in the Incheon airport with an airport hotel room given to me by the airline due to my schedule change. Basically, I spent two days in airports and airplanes. I got a lot of reading done.

Monkeys used to harvest coconuts.

The bike ride itself went well. There were only three riders - Fiona from Victoria, Canada, Carlos from New Jersey, and me. We got along quite well. Per usual, I was the old man in the group with the other two being in their late 50’s. “Tom”, our Thai guide, was fluent in English and had an encyclopedic knowledge of all things regional. The driver “Long” spoke no English but did a very competent job driving the van, loading and uploading the bikes and luggage and passengers. My ebike was a Peddle Lynx, a brand I’d not heard of before. It had a bit of a rattle when peddling (or maybe it was my knees) but it also had a powerful electric motor and good battery life. For 90% or more of the ride, I kept the bike on its lowest power setting and highest gear, boosting the power only to be obnoxious on hills. The bike was about the right size giving me sore shoulders and butt only the first couple of days.

Fishing boats on the Gulf of Thailand

The ride itself was both good and bad. We rode in the van for long periods of time to get to and from our biking routes to our hotels. We biked far too many miles on busy roads rather than back country roads as advertised. And we had one day of steady rain and high winds which canceled our ride. Some of the small restaurants at which we ate were rather shabby. Waa, waa, waa.

Our ecolodge the last nights of the bike ride

But the ride was quite wonderful as well. We did get to ride a lot of small country roads. Views of the coast were amazing. The small villages were interesting, as were the pineapple farms and rubber plantations. We saw monkeys on scooters used to harvest coconuts, cattle grazing among the trees, and stray dogs happily napping in the roadways. Our hotel/resorts were very, very nice, mostly with pools, good restaurants, and spacious rooms with balconies. The ride was mostly flat and our longest day was 45 miles, with the days closer to 35 miles. Easy, peasy on an ebike, even for an old guy. Other than Tom’s chain coming off going up a steep hill, no one had any mechanical issues - or physical ones except tiredness. All of us rode all the distances, no sagging. Our weather was hot and humid but not excessively so.

My cooking class teachers

Along with the biking we toured temples (one in a cave following a very strenuous hike), rode a rubber canoe along a river spotting lizards, snakes, toads, and monkeys, and took a cooking class. Nice changes of pace.

Wild monkeys viewed on canoe trip

I have to say, though, Thailand has not been my favorite place in which to bike - at least this part of the country. It’s just too congested with too many miles between good bike routes. (The Siam Reap to Ho Chi Minh City ride a few years ago was much better.) In fact both Bangkok where I spent a couple days before the ride started and Phuket where I spent a day after the ride were more crowded with cars, motorcycles, and pedestrians than I ever remembered them. Patong Beach in Phuket had two giant cruise ships sitting in its harbor, and while on a morning beach walk I watched literally hundreds of passengers disembark, crowding the streets. Patong’s primary businesses are massage parlors (got an excellent foot massage), shooting galleries, bars, and marijuana shops. Not much of a “cultural” experience there.

Rough canoeing

I am glad I went. My eSIM worked well. With the exception of a sore butt and shoulders for a couple days, I felt good the whole trip. And I got a chance to revisit some spots fondly remembered from previous trips - Watt Arun, the Grand Palace, and the Shangri La hotel. I re-mastered the SkyTrain. I mentally converted currency. And I booked flights and hotel rooms for the correct days.

Dawn breaking over the resort's pool

Each time I head out solo I ask myself if I am getting too old, too senile, too physically inept to be doing this. As an old guy, the Thais were kind to often offer a steading hand while on rough paths, honored reserved seats on mass transit, and even directed me to a special line through security at the Bangkok airport. I had purposely not yet booked any major trips for 2026, waiting to see how well I handled this one.

1988 - 2025 At least the statue has held up

I think I will start seeing what’s available!