Title: Korean Air to Upgrade Lounges at Incheon, JFK & LAX
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2025/03/19/korean-air-to-upgrade-lounges-at-incheon-jfk-lax/
--------------------------------------------------

1.5K

Korean Air recently announced that it will upgrade its airport lounges at Seoul’s Incheon Airport (ICN), Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), and John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York. The South Korean airline also plans to launch premium economy class on some of its aircraft.

Upgraded Airport Lounges

The airline announced that it will renovate and expand its existing lounges at Incheon International Airport Terminal 2, beginning this upcoming August. New “Prestige Class Garden Lounges” will be built in both the east and west wings. These enhancements will accommodate the increase in passenger traffic following the airport’s Phase 4 expansion, which includes the relocation of Asiana Airlines into Terminal 2.

Korean Air added that the existing Prestige Class Lounge in ICN’s east wing will be doubled in size, and the Miler Club Lounge will also be expanded.

These four lounges will open in phases, starting this August. Current plans indicate that the First Class Lounge and Prestige Class Lounge in ICN’s west wing will undergo renovations and reopen in April 2026.

Once all of the renovations and expansions are complete, Korean Air will operate a grand total of 6 lounges at Incheon. Their overall lounge space will be 2.5 times larger, and they will offer twice the seating capacity.

The airline also says that its lounges at LAX (Terminal TB) and JFK (Terminal One) will undergo complete restructuring and will have city-themed designs.

Korean Air Brings Back Premium Economy

Korean Air also announced they are reintroducing premium economy class seats, due to growing market demand.

The airline plans to retrofit eleven Boeing 777-300ER aircraft by removing their first class cabins and installing premium economy seats in their place.

Passengers choosing this new premium economy seating option should expect wider, reclining seats with more legroom, better onboard services and amenities, improved dining options, and priority boarding.

The first retrofitted aircraft is already in the midst of its changeover. The plans are that this 777-300ER will re-enter service in the latter half of 2025; it will have this new three-class configuration.

Fleet modifications will continue through 2026 to expand the availability of premium economy across more routes.

The Reason Behind These Changes

These changes are all part of Korean Air’s broader service enhancement strategy, which includes a refreshed corporate identity ahead of its integration with Asiana Airlines.

Feature Photo (cropped): Aero Icarus // flickr // CC BY-SA 2.0

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!