Title: Singapore Airlines relief flight arrives at Changi Airport after passengers, crew shaken by severe turbulence
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-airlines-sq321-turbulence-divert-bangkok-british-man-dead-injured-critical-4353851
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: A total of 131 passengers and 12 crew members who were aboard a Singapore Airlines (SIA) flight badly hit by turbulence arrived at Changi Airport in the early hours of Wednesday (May 22).

The scheduled London to Singapore flight was diverted to Bangkok after the plane was buffeted by turbulence that flung passengers and crew around the cabin, slamming some into the ceiling.

Photographs of the cabin showed scenes of chaos - large gashes in the overhead cabin panels, gas masks and panels hanging from the ceiling and items of hand luggage strewn around.

A 73-year-old British man died of a suspected heart attack. The passenger has been named as Mr Geoff Kitchen from Thornbury, near Bristol, in South West England.

His neighbours told reporters that he was on board the flight with his wife and had been headed for a six-week holiday.

The extreme turbulence also left dozens hurt. Bangkok's Samitivej Srinakarin Hospital said late Tuesday that 71 people had been sent for treatment - six of them with serious injuries.

SIA said in an update on Facebook on Wednesday morning that the passengers and crew of SQ321 arrived at 5.05am via a relief flight.

They were received upon their arrival at Changi Airport by SIA chief executive officer Goh Choon Phong.

“Transportation to their homes or hotel accommodation has been arranged for passengers travelling to Singapore," said the airline.

“For passengers with onward connections, we have rebooked them on alternative flights. We have also arranged hotel accommodation or lounge access for them to rest until their next flight.”

Reuters reported dozens of passengers quietly filing off a Singapore Airlines jet on Wednesday morning, mostly ignoring media awaiting their arrival.

Some responded to shouted questions, confirming they had been on the original London-Singapore trip and saying "Good flight!" when asked about the last leg from Bangkok.

"I saw people from across the aisle going completely horizontal, hitting the ceiling and landing back down in like really awkward positions. People, like, getting massive gashes in the head, concussions," Dzafran Azmir, a 28-year-old student on board the flight told Reuters after arriving in Singapore.

He had earlier recounted feeling the plane tilt upwards and begin to shake.

"Suddenly there was a very dramatic drop so everyone seated and not wearing a seatbelt was launched immediately into the ceiling, some people hit their heads on the baggage cabins overhead and dented it, they hit the places where lights and masks are and broke straight through it."

A CNA reporter noted emotional scenes as some passengers and family members embraced. Those who arrived were escorted by airport staff to their transportation.

Some had visible injuries with at least one seen in a wheelchair.

A man, whose 22-year-old son was on the flight, said he wanted his child to go for a check-up to be safe. He also expressed hope that his son was both physically and mentally well.

The airline also expressed its condolences over the death of the British passenger.

“On behalf of Singapore Airlines, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the family and loved ones of the deceased passenger. We also deeply apologise for the trauma experienced by all passengers and crew members on this flight,” said Mr Goh.

“We are providing all possible assistance and support to them, along with their families and loved ones, during this difficult time. The well-being of our passengers and staff is our utmost priority.”

Relatives seeking information may contact the Singapore Airlines hotlines at +65 6542 3311 (Singapore), 1800-845-313 (Australia) and 080-0066-8194 (the United Kingdom).

In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Singapore Prime Minister Lawrence Wong said he was relieved to hear that those on the rescue flight have safely returned to Singapore.

"On behalf of the government and people of Singapore, I thank the authorities in Thailand for their support in providing medical assistance and looking after the affected passengers and crew."

"My deepest condolences once again to the family and loved ones of the deceased. I also hope and pray that those who are injured will recover and return home soon."

WHAT HAPPENED

In a video message on Wednesday morning, Mr Goh laid out the timeline of events.

Flight SQ321 encountered "sudden extreme turbulence" over the Irrawaddy Basin at an altitude of 37,000 feet about 10 hours after departure from London Heathrow.

The flight was carrying 211 passengers and 18 crew members.

The pilot declared a medical emergency and diverted the Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to Bangkok, landing at 3.45pm local time.

"Singapore Airlines swiftly dispatched a team to Bangkok last night, and they have been helping our colleagues with the support on the ground," he said.

"We are fully cooperating with the relevant authorities on the investigations."

Singapore's Transport Safety Investigation Bureau (TSIB), an arm of the Transport Ministry, is opening an investigation into what happened on SQ321.

Its officers arrived in Bangkok on Tuesday night, Transport Minister Chee Hong Tat said in a statement on Facebook.

"As this incident involves a Boeing 777-300ER aircraft, the United States’ National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is sending an accredited representative and four technical advisors to support the investigation," he said.

Boeing earlier said it was in touch with SIA and was ready to provide support.

The stricken plane was still parked at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi International Airport as of Wednesday afternoon. Personnel wearing high-visibility vests bearing SIA and Thai Airways logos were seen boarding the aircraft.

"SCREAMING IN PAIN"

Aircraft tracking provider FlightRadar 24 said at around 3.49pm Singapore time the London-Singapore flight encountered "a rapid change in vertical rate, consistent with a sudden turbulence event".

"There were thunderstorms, some severe, in the area at the time," it said.

Turbulence has many causes, most obviously the unstable weather patterns that trigger storms, but this flight could have been affected by clear air turbulence, which is very difficult to detect.

Photos online and those sent to CNA showed food trays and items scattered on the ground. Oxygen masks were seen hanging from the ceiling and parts of the plane's interior were damaged.

Passenger Andrew Davies said the seatbelt sign was turned on moments before the plane dropped.

"So many injured people, head lacerations, bleeding ears," he wrote on X, adding that a female passenger was screaming in pain.

Severe turbulence such as the one experienced by SQ321 is "extremely rare", analysts said, adding that turbulence does not usually cause fatalities or a large number of injuries.

Independent aviation analyst Alvin Lie said the intensity of the turbulence on the Singapore Airlines flight was likely “extreme” - the highest classification by the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) National Weather Service.

According to the agency, extreme turbulence causes a plane to toss violently about and is practically impossible to control. It may also cause structural damage.

Mr Lie told CNA’s Asia Tonight that SQ321 likely encountered clear air turbulence (CAT).

“Normally, for turbulence caused by movement of clouds, pilots will be alerted on the radar so they can avoid it or notify the crew and passengers to wear their seatbelts,” he said. “So, looking at the number of injuries, I believe that SQ321 encountered CAT, where a plane can be tossed about violently."

CAT can hit anywhere and anytime, he said, reiterating that the phenomenon is rarely severe.

“There is no way of knowing when or where CAT can happen, or the severity or intensity of it. I believe there were many other planes flying in that area at the same time as SQ321 (but were not affected). It was just hard luck.”

Additional reporting by Aslam Shah and Saksith Saiyasombut.