Title: The Most Expensive U.S. Vacation Spots, A Nude Cruise Ship And Other Travel News
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/passport/2024/05/24/the-most-expensive-us-vacation-spots-a-nude-cruise-ship-and-other-travel-news/
--------------------------------------------------

The Most Expensive U.S. Vacation Spots

For those who love to visit the poshest places on earth, a new study by Optimos travel ranks Aspen, Colorado as the most expensive vacation destination in the United States. According to the survey, visitors can expect to spend more than $761 a day in Aspen—although that amount fluctuates by season and how large you live. Rounding out the top three destinations are Park City, Utah and Maui, Hawaii.

The World’s Best Airport Hotels

Staying in an airport hotel is usually considered more of a last resort than a first option—but it really depends on the hotel. Skytrax, the London-based air travel site, recently named the world’s best airport hotels and the Crowne Plaza Changi Airport in Singapore was ranked No. 1. Other standout airport destinations are the Hyatt Regency at Shenzhen airport in China and the TWA Hotel at JFK in New York.

Nude Cruise To Set Sail in 2025

Here’s a vacation idea for those who love to pack light—an 11-day Caribbean cruise for nudists. In February 2025, Bare Necessities Tour & Travel will partner with the Norwegian Pearl on “The Big Nude Boat.” For those curious about the details, guests must be 21 and older, and clothing will be required while in port and in the main and specialty dining rooms, and crew members are clothed throughout the cruise. Remember to bring a lot of sunscreen and try not to think about where you’ll keep tip money.

TravelWise

With summer travel heating up—and 9 in 10 Americans say they expect to travel more and spend more this year—it’s important to protect your vacation with travel insurance. From family plans to emergency medical policies, here’s what you need to know about travel insurance this summer.

How to Swap Luxury Homes Worldwide