Title: NCT 127 Members Wore Matching ‘Stay Together’ Jackets at the Airport
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/nct-127-matching-stay-together-jackets
--------------------------------------------------

NCT 127 Members Wore Matching ‘Stay Together’ Jackets at the AirportNothing speaks louder than a matching

NCT 127 members have a message for their fans, and they are wearing it on their sleeves—quite literally—with their latest airport fashion statement.

The K-pop group is making headlines after members Taeyong, Johnny, Jaehyun, Yuta, and Haechan were spotted departing from South Korea's Incheon Airport rocking a set of matching jackets rife with self-references, and even a teaser. (You can see videos of the members wearing their jackets here and here.)

Each member styled the jacket differently. Taeyong went for black jorts and a hoodie underneath. Johnny opted for beige pants and white dad sneakers. Jaehyun wore it with black sunglasses and distressed bleached jeans. Yuta also went for a hoodie underneath but added baggy blue jeans instead, while Haechan kept it simple with a black tee and dark-wash jeans. However, the jacket united it them all.

The front of the jacket was emblazoned with a small NCT 127 detail on the left upper chest, which also featured the birth years of the seven active members of the group: Johnny, Taeyong, Yuta, Doyoung, Jaehyun, Jungwoo, and Haechan. ICYMI, Mark Lee announced his departure from NCT, including 127, back in April following the culmination of his contract with SM Entertainment. Doyoung and Jungwoo's birth years were highlighted in green to denote their active military conscription.

The members also made sure to show off the back of the jackets to photographers on site to reveal a message reading “We stay together. Still here, NCT 127.” The top of the jacket also read “Everything all at once. Neo.”

Fans also noticed a hidden message in green that reads, “maybe.. 2026 AUGUST :)” and, of course, are already theorizing what it could mean, with a comeback or a tour naturally the most discussed scenarios.

The matching jackets are rightfully sending fans into an emotional frenzy, especially since many were still celebrating Jaehyun's return from military service just days earlier. The looks are being thoroughly deciphered, and they are even inspiring fan art, so it's safe to say they've achieved their mission.