Title: Fabulous Fridays: New South Korea Electronic Gate Entry Service For Citizens of Germany & Macao
Source: Loyaltylobby.com
URL: https://loyaltylobby.com/2025/11/14/fabulous-fridays-new-south-korea-electronic-gate-entry-service-for-citizens-of-germany-macao/
--------------------------------------------------

South Korea has opened a new reciprocal partnership allowing citizens of Germany & Macao to pass through eGates, following the same model used by Korean travelers at overseas airports (registration required).

During my visit last month, there was already a sign, but it was still covered up upon arrival. The website has now been updated with details of where passengers have to register for the service.

The so-called Smart Entry Service is available to Foreigners whose home country has agreed on the mutual use of automated immigration clearance with the Republic of Korea by concluding an MOU, Agreement, etc.

So far, these eligible countries were limited to participants of the U.S. Global Entry program, Privium of the Netherlands, e-Gate of Hong Kong, and Smart Gate of Australia.

U.S. citizens who enrolled in Global Entry were the first and allowed to enroll in SES many years ago, but now it has been expanded to other countries as well, including (thankfully for me) Germany.

Republic of Korea:

German citizens can register for the “Smart Entry Service” at the international airport “Incheon Gukje Gonghang” and use the eGates there for entry and exit under certain conditions. The one-time registration for the duration of the passport’s validity includes taking a photo and fingerprints at the registration office and takes only a few minutes.

You can find additional details and the application form at:

http://www.ses.go.kr/ses/main_en.ses

I have already enrolled for all of the other programs, including Hong Kong, Taiwan, and USA.

You can find more details about all the partnerships for Germany on the website of the Federal Border Police.

This partnership is especially useful because the immigration procedure at Seoul Incheon Airport is really a wild card and it can be either super easy or complete hell upon arrival.

Sadly, the last time I was at Incheon Airport, the registration counter at Terminal 1 was closed and I wasn’t able to register. I could have done it in the city had I known that was possible.

The city registration option is at Seoul Station:

Download (PDF, 1.01MB)

As soon as the registration is complete, travelers can enter Korea via the eGates at the designated entry points:

You can access the Korea Immigration SES website here to read up on the details.