Title: TWICE Sana Turns Journalists' Photos Into Pictorial: 'Oh, She Knows She's Fine'
Source: Kpopstarz.com
URL: https://www.kpopstarz.com/articles/320049/20240615/twice-sana-turns-journalists-photos-pictorial-she-fine.htm
--------------------------------------------------

In her recent airport appearance, TWICE Sana unleashed her "main character" aura with her pictorial-like journalists' photos!

The "It Girl" is truly "It-girling"!

On June 14, TWICE Sana appeared at the Incheon International Airport Terminal 2 to depart for Italy for the Milan Fashion Show.

Prior to leaving, the female star happily greeted the journalist and fans waiting for her and posed for a mini photo op.

Impressively, Sana understood the assignment very well and rather than the usual airport photos showing "aegyo" and shooting "hearts" to the media and ONCEs, she delivered a model-like facial expression and served a catwalk!

Indeed, her excellent physique with toned abs and her "face card" never declined!

But aside from the gestures and emotions she exuded, what stood out best among fans and K-media was her simple yet sophisticated fashion outfit, proving that less is more!

ALSO READ: TWICE Sana Goes Viral After Throwing First Pitch: 'She's Breathtaking...'

In particular, Sana was seen dressed in Prada, wearing a white sleeveless tank top and denim pants rolled up at the waist. She then completed the look with a black ribbon-shaped belt with a matching mini bag and shoes.

The "Fancy" singer also enhanced her chic city girl look by adding minimal accessories like sunglasses, then letting her long, thick, brown, wavy hair flow at her back.

Although the pieces are simple, once the ensemble was completed, she undoubtedly showcased an elegant city vibe that perfectly hits the summer vacation season!

When her photos were uploaded by media outlets, Sana didn't disappoint and proved that she was the main event!

She received rave reviews for her looks such as:

"Oh, she knows she's fine."

"It Girl!"

"Why is she getting hotter every minute?"

"One of the most historical events in the world."

"She's walking at the airport like it's a runway."

"She's so high quality."

"Born to be a hot girl."

"Hotter than the sun."

Meanwhile, Sana who was selected as the ambassador of Italian luxury brand, Prada will be attending the S/S 2025 Men's Fashion Week to be held on June 15 to 19.

There is a high expectation of what kind of aura and outfit will she introduce this time, after sending everyone into a frenzy with her past appearances.

Following her schedules in Italy, Sana will be joining her girl group TWICE on its scheduled first full-length album, "DIVE" set to be released in Japan on July 17.

The nonet was also set to meet Japanese fans with its fifth world tour, "READY TO BE" Japan leg which will be held in July.

On July 13 and 14, they will greet ONCEs in Osaka, and on the 20th and 21st, they will hold a concert at the Ajinomoto Stadium in Tokyo. TWICE will be then the first K-pop girl group to enter the Nissan Stadium on July 27th and 28th.

READ MORE: TWICE Sana Reveals Ideal Type, What She Despises Most With Guys

For more K-Pop news and updates, keep your tabs open here at KpopStarz.

KpopStarz owns this article.