Title: Forbes Travel Guide’s Inaugural Luxury Air Travel Awards
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestravelguide/2024/10/21/forbes-travel-guide-2024-verified-air-travel-awards/
--------------------------------------------------

From the best airlines and private jet carrier to the top culinary programs and lounges, introducing a new metrics-based accolade for high-flyers.

By Jennifer Kester, Contributor

Before you check into a stunning hotel or explore a new city, chances are your travels will begin at the airport. And the journey is just as important as the destination. That’s why Forbes Travel Guide is launching its first Verified Air Travel Awards to celebrate the best airline and airport experiences.

The 22 awards highlight a range of categories—from fine airport dining and lavish lounges, to top-of-the-line first-class suites and in-flight cocktail bars. For those who prefer traversing the globe in a more exclusive style, the Air Travel Awards also cover private jet and private airport services.

Emirates and Delta Air Lines were named Best International Airline and Best U.S. Airline, respectively. Singapore Changi Airport earned the title of Best International Airport, while LaGuardia’s renovation landed it the Best U.S. Airport accolade. And the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) picked up Innovation of the Year for introducing facial recognition at major U.S. airports.

FTG’s air travel experts scoured the globe to come up with a list of nominees. Then the Verified Air Travel Award winners were decided by an invitation-only survey of 5,000 of the most well-traveled people in the hospitality industry, including luxury travel advisors and FTG’s most frequent fliers, its incognito inspectors and training team. The results were validated by the experts at FTG, known for the integrity and objectivity of its 66-year-old Star Ratings system (which relies on incognito inspections by expert inspectors to determine the annual ratings of hotels, restaurants, spas and ocean cruise ships).

“Too many travel industry awards are the result of a somewhat suspect popularity contest. The Verified Air Travel Awards are important because the metrics are based on real-world experience and real-world accountability,” says Peter Greenberg, Emmy Award-winning travel journalist and host of Eye on Travel on CBS Radio. “In a world experiencing an explosion of luxury brands, it's not about pretty pictures or mission statements, but the unbiased opinions of veteran travelers coupled with reliable facts that lead to a credible and relevant definition of excellence."

Fasten your seatbelts and get ready for takeoff with these worldwide winners.

2024 Forbes Travel Guide Verified Air Travel Awards

Best International Airline

Emirates

Best U.S. Airline

Delta Air Lines

Best Small Airline

La Compagnie

Best Private Jet

NetJets

Best International Airport

Singapore Changi Airport

Best U.S. Airport

LaGuardia Airport

Best First Class

Emirates

Best International Business Class

Qatar Airways

Best Domestic Business Class

Delta Air Lines

Best Independent Airport Lounge

Louis Vuitton Lounge by Yannick Alléno, Hamad International Airport

Best U.S. Airline Lounge

Delta One, John F. Kennedy International Airport

Best International Airline Lounge

Emirates First Class Lounge, Dubai

Best Airport Dining

Dubai International Airport

Best Wine List

Air France

Best Culinary Program

Emirates

Innovation of the Year

Transportation Security Administration (for implementing facial recognition at major U.S. airports)

Best Airport Design

Singapore Changi Airport

Best Loyalty Program

Delta Air Lines SkyMiles

Best In-Flight Cocktail Lounge

Emirates

Best Private Airport Experience

Heathrow VIP

Best Airport Wellness Experience

Jewel Changi Airport (for the Forest Valley and Rain Vortex gardens)

Best Airline App

Delta Air Lines

The Verified Air Travel Award winners will be honored at The Summit, Forbes Travel Guide’s annual event dedicated to travel and luxury, in Monaco in February 2025.

MORE FROM FORBES TRAVEL GUIDE

Forbes10 Most Anticipated Fall Hotel OpeningsForbes6 Luxury Hotels With WaterparksForbes9 Golf Resorts That Will Improve Your Game