Title: Drones at Copenhagen Airport were 'serious attack,' PM says
Source: Dpa-international.com
URL: https://dpa-international.com/general-news/urn:newsml:dpa.com:20090101:250923-99-120487/
--------------------------------------------------

Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said the drones that disrupted operations at Copenhagen Airport, affecting thousands of passengers, constituted "the most serious attack on Danish critical infrastructure to date," the Ritzau news agency reported on Tuesday.

"This says something about the times we live in and what we as a society must be prepared for," Frederiksen said. "Of course, we are not ruling out any possibility as to who is behind it," she added.

She noted that the incident was consistent with recent drone sightings, airspace violations and cyberattacks on European airports.

Take-offs and landings at the airport were temporarily suspended after two to three drones were spotted near the airfield late on Monday.

About 100 flights had to be cancelled in Copenhagen. A total of around 20,000 passengers were affected, representatives of the airport and Danish air traffic control said at a press conference.

"There will be delays and some cancelled departures," the airport authorities warned even after the flight hub was reopened. "Passengers are advised to check with their airline for further information."

Copenhagen police investigator Jens Jespersen said at a press conference early Tuesday that based on the number and size of drones, as well as the timing of the incident, authorities believe a "capable actor" was likely behind it.

He said that such an actor would possess the skills, intent, and tools to carry out the operation.

Oslo airport also affected by drone activity

Meanwhile, the airport in Norway's capital Oslo was also closed after drones were spotted, Norwegian broadcaster NRK reported early on Tuesday. According to the operator Avinor, both the airport and the airspace over Oslo were shut. Incoming flights were being redirected, an airport spokeswoman said.

Copenhagen Kastrup Airport is one of Scandinavia's largest, alongside Stockholm Arlanda and Oslo Gardermoen.

Several flights due to depart or arrive in Copenhagen were either delayed, cancelled or diverted to other airports including Billund, a small town west of Copenhagen, and Gothenburg in Sweden.

It has been a difficult period for airlines and passengers in Europe. On the weekend, a cyberattack on an IT service provider caused disruptions at several airports including Berlin, Brussels, London Heathrow and Dublin.