Title: Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma meets Singapore President Tharman Shanmugaratnam, explores collaboration
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/india/assam-cm-himanta-biswa-sarma-meets-singapore-president-tharman-shanmugaratnam-explores-collaboration/articleshow/118151777.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma met with Singapore President Tharman Shanmugaratnam to discuss collaboration possibilities. He engaged with various stakeholders to promote Advantage Assam 2.0, including discussions on semiconductor opportunities and technical education. Meetings with Singapore's Foreign Affairs Minister and leaders of semiconductor companies highlighted Assam's role in strengthening the Indo-Singapore partnership.

GUWAHATI: Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma calls upon President of Singapore, Tharman Shanmugaratnam and discusses possible areas of collaboration.

Biswa Sarma landed in Singapore on Monday to engage in discussions with various stakeholders ahead of Advantage Assam 2.0 and was received by High Commissioner of India to Singapore, Dr Shilpak Ambule at the Changi Airport.

Beginning his formal engagements for the day, the Chief Minister called upon H.E Tharman Shanmugaratnam, the President of the Republic of Singapore to discuss on Assam’s key position in furthering the Indo-Singapore Comprehensive Strategic Partnership as the CM acknowledged Singapore’s partnership for the upcoming Advantage Assam 2.0.

The Chief Minister also called upon the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Singapore, Vivian Balakrishnan to explore areas of mutual collaboration to deepen ties between Assam and Singapore to take forward India’s Act East Policy.

The Chief Minister held a meeting with leaders of 8 Semiconductor companies viz., ASMPT, AEM, Besi, Temasek, Silicon Box, Nitto Denko Corp, Heller Industries, and Meinhardt Group. Sarma invited the leaders to explore opportunities in Assam’s Electronic City in Jagiroad and take forward the semiconductor ecosystem, which forms a strong part of the India Singapore relations.

Live Events

The Chief Minister engaged in productive discussions with Low Cher Ek, CEO of Township vertical at Surbana Jurong to discuss their ongoing projects in Assam. They also discussed ways to deepen collaboration to build futuristic cities and industrial townships in Assam.

Sarma also visited the campus of ITE Education Services and interacted with the CEO Suresh Natarajan and his team to understand their vision of developing spheres of technical education. The Chief Minister explored their aerospace, smart manufacturing and electronic laboratories which are enabling students to learn industry specific skills.

The CM expressed his plans to stitch collaboration between Assam Skill University and ITE. The meeting also discussed ways to leverage ITE’s expertise in setting up a World Skill Centre in Assam. Sarma was impressed with the industry ready courses offered by the institution in areas of Applied & Health Sciences, Business and Services, Design & Media, Electronics & ICT, Engineering and Hospitality & Tourism.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

How new market law can help reform the regulatory framework

Auditor red flagged Gymkhana land issue long before govt action

Wafers to war: Vinay Dube on how Iran crisis is hitting Akasa

Can a cousin be an ‘independent’ director? Sebi clarifies

Can targeted reforms at home save India from external shocks?

Stock Radar: Nestle India stock gives a breakout from a falling channel trendline; time to buy?

1

2

3