Title: Couple Seated Next to Farting Dog Demands Full Refund From Singapore Airlines
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/couple-seated-next-to-farting-dog-demands-full-refund-from-singapore-airlines/
--------------------------------------------------

1.6K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

A couple purchased seats in Premium Economy on a recent flight from Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). They had to move midflight after their seatmate, “a drooling, farting dog” made the flight uncomfortable. They’re now demanding a full refund from Singapore Airlines.

Insider reports that Gill and Warren Press from Wellington, New Zealand were flying to Singapore in Premium Economy. Another passenger’s dog was seated near them and reportedly was “drooling and farting throughout the journey.” There must not have been any open seats in their cabin as they chose to move back to Economy Class.

The couple argues that they were not informed that they’d be seated near a dog. The dog was apparently a service animal.

Gill Press commented to Insider:

I heard this noise…a heavy snorting. I thought it was my husband’s phone, but we looked down and realized it was the dog breathing. My husband was in shorts, and was getting the dog’s saliva goo on his leg.”

When they complained to the flight attendant, she moved them back. After the flight, the couple contacted Singapore Airlines. The carrier initially offered them around $73 in travel vouchers. They refused and the offer was increased to approximately $118 per traveler. They did not accept and are pushing Singapore Airlines for a full refund.

Anthony’s Take: I love dogs so I probably would have been excited to sit near the canine traveler. I can see how others might not feel the same way (especially on a 13-hour flight). I don’t think that Singapore Airlines will fully refund their tickets (which likely cost thousands of dollars in Premium Economy).

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.