Title: Oil spikes are pushing airlines to hike ticket prices. These carriers have already raised fares or canceled flights.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/airlines-raise-prices-cancel-flights-due-to-fuel-costs-2026-3
--------------------------------------------------

Hong Kong's airline is hiking its fuel surcharges by 34% from April 1.

On long-haul flights, the surcharge will be 1,560 Hong Kong dollars, or about $200.

"If the steep increase of fuel costs cannot be effectively mitigated, we would ⁠not ​be able to sustain ​the effective operations of our network," it said.

The airline added that it would review the surcharge every two weeks, "to enable a more agile response to the volatile jet fuel prices."

"SAS has introduced short-term measures including a temporary fuel-related price adjustment and targeted capacity adjustments in March and April," the airline said in a statement sent to Business Insider.

In an interview with Swedish business newspaper Dagens Industri, SAS CEO Anko van der Werff said that the average short-haul flight with the airline will rise around $50, while Transatlantic flights will be almost $290 higher on average.

"For April, we are looking at around 1,000 cancellations, primarily in the second half of the month after Easter," the airline's statement added.

Australia's flag carrier was one of the first airlines to bring in fare increases, telling local media of its plans earlier this week.

In a statement shared with Business Insider, it said that its flights to Europe are up to 90% full, while they're typically only three-quarters full at this time of year.

"Qantas International is increasing fares this week in response to rising costs, including the significant increases in jet fuel prices," it added. "These increases will vary from route to route."

Air India, the national carrier of India, said on March 10 that it will levy fuel surcharges on all passengers buying tickets in a three-phase rollout.

From March 12, the airline will add fuel surcharges to flight tickets in India, Western Asia, and the Middle East, and increase surcharges already levied on flights to Southeast Asis and Africa.

After March 18, all tickets to Europe, North America, and Australia will face surcharges increasing by up to $50. For instance, the current fuel surcharge for flights to America is $150, but will rise to $200.

Additional surcharges for flights to the Far East will be announced in due course.

The French-Dutch conglomerate said in a statement that the situation in the Middle East "has led to a sharp and sudden increase in fuel prices, particularly affecting jet fuel."

"As a consequence, Air France and KLM will raise their fares on long-haul flights, for tickets issued as of March 11, 2026," it added.

For people flying in economy, round-trip fares will be 50 euros ($57) more expensive.

Thai Airways is raising ticket prices by 10% to 15% due to "overwhelming" demand and rising fuel costs, Chief Financial Officer Cherdchom Therdthirasak said this week.

"Passengers planning to travel should secure their tickets as soon as possible before fares rise further," Cherdchom said, according to Bloomberg. "Over the next two weeks, tickets will be extremely limited across both European routes and other destinations."

In a statement posted on its website, South African budget carrier FlySafair said it would implement a fuel surcharge from March 12.

"Since late February 2026, global fuel prices have increased significantly following the conflict in the Middle East. This disruption has affected oil supply routes and caused aviation fuel prices to rise sharply," it said in a statement.

"FlySafair absorbed these additional costs for as long as possible. However, to maintain affordable fares and continue operating sustainably, a Temporary Dynamic Fuel Surcharge has been introduced."

Price increases on FlySafair's flights will be relatively low, with fuel surcharges ranging from around $4 for shorter journeys to around $18 for longer flights.