Title: ComfortDelGro to offer hotline bookings for doorstep pick-ups from Singapore to Johor Bahru from Sep 25
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/comfortdelgro-hotline-bookings-sep-25-cross-border-services-5357471
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Commuters heading to Johor Bahru will soon be able to book a ride from anywhere in Singapore using ComfortDelGro’s hotline.

Singapore’s largest taxi operator announced on Thursday (Sep 18) that the service would be launched on Sep 25.

Most trips from Singapore to Johor Bahru’s Larkin Terminal will be at a fixed fare of S$80 (US$62), it said in a Facebook post.

Pick-ups from the taxi stand at Ban San Street cost S$60, while those from Changi Airport cost S$120.

Singapore- and Malaysia-registered taxis are the only licensed providers of cross-border services approved by the Land Transport Authority (LTA) and Malaysia’s Agensi Pengangkutan Awam Darat.

Licensed taxis are allowed to pick up or drop off passengers anywhere within their respective country, but are required to use the designated terminal after crossing the border.

Singapore taxis must drop their customers at Larkin Sentral in Johor Bahru, while Malaysian taxis must drop travellers at Ban San Street Terminal.

In response to CNA's queries, ComfortDelGro said on Friday that 90 taxi drivers are licensed to provide cross-border services.

When asked why it was only launching the hotline service now, when LTA has enabled call bookings for cross-border services since September last year, ComfortDelGro said the new service would better manage and support an increased number of bookings.

"Previously, such bookings were handled by Singapore-Johor Taxi Operators Association," it said.

The hotline will be available at all times, and ComfortDelGro advised travellers to book their rides up to 24 hours before their intended pickup time.

"For immediate or current job requests, arrangements will be subject to the availability of cabbies at the time of booking," it added.

The taxi operator told CNA that it plans to make bookings available on its Zig app as well, and an announcement would be made "in due course".

CNA previously reported that taxi drivers have faced intense competition from illegal cross-border operators who offer to pick up passengers from their doorstep and drop them off at their intended destinations.

In early September, LTA said it recognised that the current cross-border scheme can be improved, such as by designating more pick-up and drop-off points and facilitating expedited clearance.

It added that there had been discussions about expanding the current cross-border taxi schemes to allow higher quotas and larger capacity vehicles, and partnering with platform companies for app-based bookings.