Title: PM Modi calls India-Singapore ministerial roundtable 'path-breaking mechanism'
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/india/pm-modi-calls-india-singapore-ministerial-roundtable-path-breaking-mechanism/articleshow/113080683.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasized Singapore's role as an inspiration for developing nations during his meeting with Singaporean counterpart Lawrence Wong. The ministerial roundtable between India and Singapore was highlighted as a significant mechanism for cooperation in various sectors, including digitalisation, advanced manufacturing, and cybersecurity. Modi's visit aims to strengthen bilateral ties further.

Singapore: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that Singapore is not just a partner nation but an inspiration for every developing nation. He called the roundtable formed between India and Singapore a "path-breaking" mechanism.

In his opening remarks at the meeting with his Singaporean counterpart Lawrence Wong, PM Modi stated, "I thank you for your warm welcome. This is our first meeting after you assumed the post of Prime Minister. Many congratulations to you from my side. I am confident that under the leadership of 4G, Singapore will progress even faster."

"Singapore is not just a partner country, Singapore is an inspiration for every developing country. We also want to create many Singapores in India and I am happy that we are working together in this direction. The ministerial roundtable that has been formed between us is a path-breaking mechanism," he added.

PM Modi noted that cooperation between two nations in various sectors, including digitalisation, advanced manufacturing and cyber security, has become an identity of India-Singapore ministerial roundtable.

PM Modi said, "Cooperation in the fields of skilling, digitalisation, mobility, advanced manufacturing, semiconductors, AI, healthcare, sustainability and cybersecurity has become a identity of this initiative."

Live Events

External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Secretary East, Ministry of External Affairs, Jaideep Mazumdar, MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal and other officials were present in the meeting.

Earlier in the day, PM Modi received the ceremonial welcome at Singapore's Parliament House on Thursday.

Singapore Prime Minister Lawrence Wong welcomed PM Modi and the two leaders warmly greeted each other. He signed the visitors book at the Parliament House.

PM Modi and Lawrence Wong met ministers and delegates from each other's countries.

PM Modi, who reached Singapore on Wednesday, is slated to hold numerous engagements in the city-state on Thursday as well. This visit is poised to further bolster the bilateral ties between India and Singapore.

During the day, PM Modi will visit AEM Holdings Ltd's semiconductor facility with Singapore's Prime Minister, after a lunch hosted by Senior Minister Lee Hsien Loong.

He will also meet with Singapore President Tharman Shanmugaratnam and Emeritus Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong. Following a business meeting with CEOs, PM Modi will return to New Delhi.

PM Modi met his Singaporean counterpart Lawrence Wong on Wednesday. He expressed his happiness at meeting Lawrence Wong.

Sharing a post on X, PM Modi stated, "Happy to have met my friend, PM Lawrence Wong. Had an excellent discussion on a wide range of issues. India cherishes the friendship with Singapore."

Wong also shared a picture of their meeting on X and welcomed PM Modi for dinner at Istana, the official residence and office of the president of Singapore.

In a post on X, he stated, "Welcome PM Narendra Modi to Singapore! Delighted to have the chance to catch up over a meal at the Istana, before the official meetings tomorrow."

On Prime Minister Modi's Singapore visit, MEA official spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal stated that the visit will further fortify ties between the two nations.

"Fortifying India-Singapore bonds of friendship. PM Narendra Modi warmly hosted by PM Lawrence Wong at the iconic Sri Temasek in Singapore. An evening cherishing the deep and long-standing India-Singapore ties awaits," he posted on X.

Singaporean Minister for Home Affairs and Law K Shanmugham received PM Modi at the Changi airport on Wednesday and received a warm welcome from the Indian community.

PM Modi was seen giving autographs to diaspora members outside the hotel. He also tried his hand at playing the dhol there. Sharing pictures on X, PM Modi stated, "Thank you, Singapore! The welcome was truly vibrant."

Before his arrival in Singapore, PM Modi was on an official visit to Brunei. During his visit, he held "wide ranging" talks with Brunei Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah at Istana Nurul Iman in Bandar Seri Begawan.

During their talks, both the leaders discussed ways to further cement bilateral ties. On Tuesday, PM Modi inaugurated the new Chancery of the High Commission of India in Brunei's capital city, Bandar Seri Begawan. The Prime Minister also visited the Omar Ali Saifuddien Mosque in Bandar Seri Begawan on Tuesday as a part of his historic visit to Brunei.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

Is Air India the cocktail turning bitter for Tatas?

Can a Rajan-style NRI dollar-deposit scheme save the rupee?

As West Asia boils, will Dubai’s loss be a GIFT for India?

An unusual skill shortage that’s stalling govt’s PNG push

Why Sanjeev Bikhchandani now depends more on Zomato than on jobs

1

2

3