Title: BTS's Jungkook Gains Attention For His Response To Large And Dangerous Crowds At Incheon Airport
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/bts-jungkook-attention-response-large-dangerous-crowds-incheon-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

BTS‘s Jungkook has gained attention after his response to dangerous crowds waiting for him at Incheon Airport.

On June 22 (KST), it was announced that Jungkook would be returning from his overseas schedule.

As soon as the announcement was made, crowds flocked to Incheon Airport to get a glimpse of the idol.

Even though they didn’t know exactly when Jungkook would return, fans kept themselves busy by talking to each other and even singing. As the time got closer, the crowds got more full, with some even comparing it to a concert.

Of course, once Jungkook arrived at Incheon Airport, the crowds erupted.

Although the pictures were adorable and showcases Jungkook’s nickname as the “Bowing Fairy,” it was the videos that worried fans. As always, the first part of Jungkook’s arrival was calm as the fans were kept behind barricades.

Your browser does not support video.

While the crowds were impressive and showcased Jungkook’s influence, it also worried fans. As he continued walking, fans were suddenly following the idol, and, considering Jungkook’s popularity, it wasn’t surprising that everyone wanted a closer glimpse. It meant that fans were pushing to get closer to him.

Your browser does not support video.

Your browser does not support video.

Even when the crowds got more intense, Jungkook stayed cool and while trying to keep greeting fans and media, he kept trying to ensure fans stayed safe.

Your browser does not support video.

When the videos were shared, netizens shared their worry and anger about the state of the crowds and control. Although the security was trying to protect the idol, fans were getting extremely close to Jungkook and hurting themselves.

Yet, as expected, Jungkook continued to be a gentleman, trying to help the fans stay safe.

It raises more concerns about the safety of idols at the airport and whether they should be able to go through a private exit. Yet, Jungkook always seems to want to meet fans no matter what and will ensure he tries to keep them all safe.