Title: World’s best airports and airlines revealed in Forbes list — and this once-maligned NYC hub just topped it
Source: New York Post
URL: https://nypost.com/2025/10/23/lifestyle/laguardia-takes-top-spot-in-worlds-best-airports-list/
--------------------------------------------------

LaGuardia’s reputation is soaring.

Forbes Travel Guide’s second annual Verified Air Travel Awards revealed the airports and airlines that offer a top-tier experience for passengers — and one of the most notoriously hated airports just took the top spot: New York’s LaGuardia Airport.

The Guide gave out 18 awards in categories such as best first- and business-class cabins, airport lounges and dining.

For the second year in a row, the Elmhurst, Queens, airplane hub was named the Best US Airport — the same airport that was infamously compared to “some third-world country” nearly a decade ago by former President Biden.

However, with nearly $8 billion in renovations completed last year, the overhauled airport is now being touted for its “spacious gate areas, state-of-the-art architecture and food from New York culinary institutions,” like H&H Bagels and Junior’s.

Forbes isn’t the first to recognize LaGuardia Airport as the best in 2025. Earlier this year, the Skytrax ranking for Best Airport in North America in 2025 named it the best in the 50 nifty for domestic and short-haul international travel.

“A decade ago, the suggestion that LaGuardia Airport would one day be recognized on the world stage as the best regional airport in North America would have been laughable,” Port Authority Executive Director Rick Cotton admitted in a statement at the time.

“But the Port Authority and our private partners have built what we promised — a world-class airport, with inspiring architecture, public art, iconic concessions and state-of-the-art technology that has propelled LaGuardia from worst to best in the nation in the eyes of the critics and passengers alike.”

Meanwhile, Forbes Travel Guide named Singapore Changi Airport the Best International Airport. It features a 10-story shopping mall, multiple indoor gardens, a butterfly center, a rooftop pool, a museum, a 24-hour movie theater, a dinosaur theme park and the Rain Vortex, which is the world’s largest indoor waterfall at around 130 feet tall.

For the second year, Emirates and Delta Air Lines won Best International Airline and Best US Airline, respectively.

Delta scored quite a few accolades in Forbes’ awards. The Atlanta-based carrier scored five 2025 Verified Air Travel Awards — which is more than any other airline.

Delta, which celebrates its centennial this year, also got the award for Best US First Class with the A321neo’s First Class, which features 20 memory-foam-padded recliners. Delta One was named the Best US Business Class.

Those with a Delta One business class ticket automatically get access to the Delta One Lounge, and its location at John F. Kennedy International Airport was named the best US Airline Lounge.

The Delta One Lounge opened in 2024 as the first lounge for Delta One passengers, and the JFK outpost is larger than any Sky Club. Amenities include full-body massage chairs, fine dining, bathroom stalls and shower suites outfitted with robes and slippers as well as soundproof booths to get work done.

Delta Air Lines was also given the award for Best Airline App, which provides live flight updates, personalized notifications, luggage tracking and global and regional upgrade certificate redemptions.