Title: Malaysia hopes to make cross-border ride-hailing services with Singapore ‘a reality’: Transport Minister Loke
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/asia/malaysia-singapore-ride-hailing-taxi-johor-cross-border-unlicensed-anthony-loke-5302336
--------------------------------------------------

KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysia hopes to introduce cross-border ride-hailing services with Singapore in a bid to enhance connectivity between the two countries but stressed that its implementation must be jointly pursued, Malaysian Transport Minister Anthony Loke said.

Speaking in parliament on Monday (Aug 18), Loke said that the matter had previously been raised with Singapore’s former transport minister Chee Hong Tat but claimed that its southern neighbour was not ready to discuss the proposal at that time.

Loke did not say when the discussion was previously held.

“As a matter of principle and policy, we are ready to discuss with Singapore to enhance cross-border connectivity but this cannot be carried out unilaterally,” he said in response to a question by Member of Parliament for Tebrau Jimmy Puah on cross-border traffic congestion and ride-hailing drivers.

“Both parties must agree before it can be implemented,” Loke was quoted as saying by the New Straits Times, adding that any proposal for cross-border ride-hailing services would require in-depth discussions between the two governments.

“We hope to continue these discussions and hope that Singapore will respond positively so that this idea can become a reality.”

In response to CNA’s queries, Singapore’s Ministry of Transport (MOT) reiterated an earlier statement by the country’s Land Transport Authority (LTA) and said that no decision was made on the issue when officials from both sides met previously.

“When Singaporean and Malaysian officials met to discuss cross-border service arrangements, the issue of allowing cross-border e-hailing (ride-hailing) to ferry passengers was raised,” MOT said on Aug 20.

“No decision was made at that point.”

LTA had on Aug 3 said that officials from both countries met on Aug 1, in light of "Malaysian media reports suggesting that Singapore is looking to introduce cross-border on-demand ride services”.

MOT on Wednesday, meanwhile, added that it is “currently reviewing improvements” to the cross-border taxi scheme to address the growing demand for more convenient cross-border point-to-point services between the two countries.

MOT stressed that it is illegal for Malaysia-registered private cars or private hire cars to provide cross-border or ride-hail services within Singapore.

“Under the Road Traffic Act, all vehicles, including foreign-registered vehicles, must have a valid Public Service Vehicle Licence to provide taxi or chauffeured private hire car services,” it warned.

CONTINUED INTEREST FROM MALAYSIA

Loke’s remarks in Parliament on Monday is not the first time Malaysia has indicated interest in integrating ride-hailing services for cross-border travel.

Earlier this month, Johor’s Chief Minister Onn Hafiz Ghazi said that cross-border ride-hailing services were among various topics discussed during his recent meeting with Singapore’s Acting Transport Minister Jeffrey Siow.

In a Facebook post on Aug 1, Onn Hafiz said that such services between Singapore and Johor could serve as a “catalyst” for a more user-friendly, safe and competitive transport system, while strengthening integration between both countries’ public transport networks.

In June, Onn Hafiz had also said that the state government is in talks with ride-hailing company Grab to revise the Cross-Border Travel Agreement, as part of broader efforts to enhance Johor’s tourism and transportation sectors ahead of Visit Johor 2026.

LTA in its Aug 3 statement said that it is considering the use of ride-hailing apps to book cross-border trips on licensed taxis and increasing the number of boarding and alighting points in Singapore and Malaysia.

“While we are open to ideas to improve the cross-border commuting experience, we would like to clarify that LTA has no plans to fully liberalise cross-border point-to-point transport via ride-hail services,” said the authority.

CLAMPDOWN ON ILLEGAL SERVICES

Separately, Malaysia’s Road Transport Department on Aug 13 detained and seized four private hire vehicles driven by Singaporean individuals found to be operating ride-hailing services illegally in Malaysia since Aug 9.

Loke on Monday said that the four individuals are still under investigation by the Road Transport Department.

“Why is there this special operation? Because at the Singapore level, they are also enforcing the law on private vehicles from Malaysia, especially those from Johor Bahru entering Singapore, which are being stopped … they are said to be providing illegal services, such as e-hailing services,” Loke told parliament.

“So, we are also taking the same approach in enforcing our laws as a reciprocal approach to what is being implemented in Singapore, but we hope there is a better long-term solution so that this cross-border connectivity can be improved,” he said.

LTA has been carrying out patrols at Gardens by the Bay and Changi Airport, as well as working with the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) at a land checkpoint to clamp down on these illegal services.

A total of 19 drivers were caught, and all their vehicles were impounded, LTA said on Aug 6.

In its reply to CNA on Wednesday, MOT said that commuters should continue to use licensed taxis for cross-border travel as only these have valid insurance coverage.

“Travel or personal accident insurance are also unlikely to cover incidents involving trips in unlicensed vehicles,” it added.

“LTA will continue to enforce against illegal point-to-point services to safeguard commuter safety and the livelihoods of licensed drivers.”

Meanwhile, ride-hailing and chartered car drivers in Johor have planned to form an association following the LTA’s recent crackdown on the illegal cross-border services. Local Malaysian media had reported that the group hoped to get the attention of Loke for him to look into their plight.