Title: 90% of Jetstar Asia pilots and cabin crew secure jobs or interviews after airline's July closure: NTUC
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/jetstar-asia-layoffs-pilots-cabin-crew-jobs-interviews-ng-chee-meng-5339366
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Most pilots and cabin crew who lost their jobs after Singapore-based Jetstar Asia ceased operations about six weeks ago have secured jobs or interviews, labour chief Ng Chee Meng said.

The airline’s closure, which was announced in June, resulted in more than 500 employees in Singapore being laid off.

The National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) said after the announcement that it was committed to supporting those laid off.

This included organising a three-day job matching exercise in June at Jetstar Asia’s premises, which involved more than 450 job roles across 1,400 job vacancies.

In an update on the laid-off employees’ situation, Mr Ng, the NTUC secretary-general, said on Wednesday (Sep 10) that 90 per cent of the affected pilots and cabin crew had secured interviews or jobs with companies such as the Singapore Airlines (SIA) Group and Marina Bay Sands.

In a Facebook post, Mr Ng also said he met recently with former Jetstar Asia employees - pilots, cabin crew, and corporate staff - who had just transitioned to SIA Group's budget carrier Scoot.

“They told me their experiences were a blend of anxiety and joy, particularly for one new father welcoming his second child while facing the challenges of Jetstar's closure,” he said.

"As mid-career workers, they also voiced concerns about adapting to new technologies and fitting into a new company culture."

NTUC said in June that the SIA Group, including Scoot, was primarily supporting the recruitment efforts for Jetstar Asia’s pilots and cabin crew.

Other employers involved in the June job matching exercise included Airbus Singapore and Satair, Changi Airport Group, SATS, SIA Engineering Company, SMRT and the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS).

About 70 employees will stay on until October to support regulatory processes with the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, while 30 more will remain until December to handle administrative matters and office closures.

In response to CNA's email for more details about the jobs secured, including the number of corporate staff who found employment, NTUC said some Jetstar employees are still in different stages of their job search process.

"Some workers may also take time to reflect before deciding on their next steps, while others may be on a break or have yet to conclude their employment," an NTUC spokesperson said on Sep 13.

CNA previously reported that about 70 employees will stay on until October to support regulatory processes with the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, while 30 more will remain until December to handle administrative matters and office closures.

"As interviews and the job matching process are still ongoing, we will share updates on job placements in due course," NTUC added.