Title: CAE, Embraer Open E-Jet Sim Facility in Singapore
Source: Aero-news.net
URL: https://www.aero-news.net/index.cfm?do=main.textpost&id=BBACAC24-EC2E-4E23-BA7E-931DCF17C1B7
--------------------------------------------------

First in the Pacific Will Train Legions of Future RJ Pilots

Embraer and CAE have entered the first E-Jet full flight sim into the Asian Pacific market, bringing the E2 training program to Singapore.

The new sim combines Embraer's high-fidelity simulation systems with CAE's CBT courseware and "Simfinity Virtual Simulator" for interactive classroom instruction. Those should provide plenty of structure to students working their way through the curriculum, learning to fly the E-Jet to a professional standard out the gate. The new simulator, a CAE 7000XR Series FFS, is located at the firm's Singapore Flight Training Centre near Changi Airport.

Singapore Airlines regional subsidiary, Scoot, already tendered the first batch of students for E190-E2 training, giving the training systems a workout from day one. It's a fairly quick start, considering the simulator only gained certification from local aviation authorities in December of 2023.

“The start of training and the official inauguration of the first state-of-the-art E2 full flight simulator in the Asia Pacific region is a significant milestone in the growth and success of Embraer-CAE Flight Training,” said Michel Azar-Hmouda, CAE Division President overseeing its Civil Aviation Training arm. “Technology is at the core of the new E2 program, with CAE’s VSIM, CBTA courseware and latest-generation FFS preparing pilots for the entry-into-service and safe operation of the E2 in the APAC Region.”

“Embraer and CAE’s launch of the E-Jets E2 full-flight simulator in Singapore is the first of its kind in Asia Pacific. Not only does it add to the suite of aftermarket services in Singapore, it is a valuable addition to the region’s aerospace and aviation ecosystem. We look forward to collaborating with industry partners to build capabilities that fuel the growth in APAC and enhance the skills of aerospace and aviation talent in the region, from Singapore,” said Elaine Teo, Senior VP on the Singaporean Economic Development Board.

FMI: www.embraer.com