Title: The Ultimate Scotch Whisky Library: Top Picks From The 2023 SFWSC
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/joemicallef/2023/10/21/the-ultimate-scotch-whisky-library-top-picks-from-the-2023-sfwsc/
--------------------------------------------------

There are more than 4,000 Scotch whisky expressions available today. Add in discontinued and rare expressions only available in the auction market, and the number swells even larger. How do you choose among the thousands of Scotch whiskies available? For some insight, we turned to the results of the 2023 San Fransisco World Spirits Competition (SFWSC), the world’s largest spirit competition.

According to Amanda Blue, the President of the Tasting Alliance, the organization that sponsors the SFWSC, the 2023 competition featured a record number of Scotch whisky entries and the largest number of Gold and Double Gold Scotch whisky medalists in the competition’s history.

Added Blue:

We are living in a golden age of Scotch whisky. There have never been more outstanding whiskies than there are today. The challenge isn’t finding a great whisky; it’s choosing among the hundreds, if not thousands, of possible picks.

Eleven single malt Scotch whiskies were finalists across five age statements and producer categories. Three whiskies made the final round in two Blended whisky categories: No Age Statement and 16 Years and Older. These were the very best Scotch whiskies in the 2023 competition. If you want to build an outstanding Scotch whisky collection, then you need every one of these expressions.

Eighty single malt whiskies won Double Gold, and 44 won Gold medals. Nine Blended Scotch whiskies won Double Gold medals, and 15 won gold medals. Two grain whiskies won Double Gold, and three grain whiskies won Gold Medals.

The three finalists for the Best in Show, Single Malt Whisky, No Age Statement are The GlenDronach, Portwood Single Malt Scotch, 46% ABV; Smokehead, Sherry Cask Blast Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky, 48% ABV and Old Pulteney, Huddart Single Malt Scotch, 46% ABV.

“All of these Scotch whiskies are outstanding,” noted Blue. “They are an excellent place to start if you want to build a Scotch whisky collection or are just looking for gifting ideas.” ‘All three are superb whiskies,” she added, “offering a diverse array of aroma and taste profiles, from peated to unpeated, sweet wine cask finishes and a more traditional style.”

Once a little-known brand, The Glendronach, the winner, has achieved growing recognition for its outstanding single malts- the result of a substantially increased marketing budget from new owner Brown Forman, who has owned the distillery since 2016, and the deft hand of Master Blender Rachel Barrie, who was appointed to that post in 2017. The Glendronach is well on its way to becoming a classic and a must-have in any Scotch whisky collection. However, the retail price has been steadily rising, so it is better to pick up a bottle or two before the price goes even higher.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described The Glendronach Portwood as showing:

Dried fruits, herbal notes and a hint of spice on the nose. Sweet and creamy on the palate with slight herbal notes, fruity, with a hint of anise/licorice and a bit of cinnamon. Long, sweet, fruity finish with a touch of pepperiness.

Smokehead Sherry Cask Blast is a blend of different Islay malts that have been matured in a combination of ex-bourbon and ex-Sherry butts that are then finished in Oloroso Sherry butts for several additional months.

Produced by Ian MacLeod & Company, the whisky is a veritable “Sherry bomb.” The company describes the Smokehead Sherry Cask Blast as “a peaty Islay single malt that has well and truly earned its name. Blasted by rich, sweet, and spicy Spanish Sherry casks, it has emerged as a fiery, explosive, heavy-hitting dram.”

According to Blue, “If you like the combination of sweetness and smokiness in a whisky, then Smokehead is another must-have.” It’s also exceptionally well-priced and is an excellent Scotch whisky value.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Smokehead Sherry Cask Blast as featuring:

Smoky/peaty aromas with a pronounced dried fruit/Sherry, some earthiness, and a touch of medicinal notes on the nose. There are also a lot of red fruit notes in the background. Sweet on the palate with candied, medicinal/phenolic notes accompanied by dried fruit flavors, a touch of almond/marzipan, and a bit of cinnamon. Long, semisweet finish with a smoky/peaty note and some lingering fruity flavors.

Old Pulteney is the northernmost Scotch whisky distillery on the Scotch mainland. Its seaside location has given its whiskies a distinctive briny/marine tang that nicely complements its traditional fruitiness. Savoriness is typical of Scotch whiskies matured in coastal areas. If you are partial to Dirty Martinis, then the briny and fruity quality of Old Pulteney will hit the spot.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Old Pulteney Huddard Whisky as expressing:

Fruity, with mild earthy notes, spicy with a bit of vanilla, a hint of butterscotch, and a slightly briny/marine character. Sweet, creamy, and viscous with fruity tropical notes, a hint of cinnamon, and a touch of pepperiness. Long, sweet, fruity finish with a persistent chili pepperiness.

There were plenty of other Double Gold winners in the category. All of them are outstanding whiskies and all well worth acquiring.

Look to the Double Gold winners from Islay & The Islands if you like peated whiskies' smokiness and medicinal notes. Not all Islay whiskies are peated, much less heavily peated, but the style is typical of the island. Ardbeg Uigeadail; Ardbeg Heavy Vapors General Release; Ardbeg Hypernova; Arran, Single Malt Quarter Cask, “The Bothy”; Arran, Single Malt Quarter Cask, “The Bodega,”; Scarabus, Batch Strength Single Malt Scotch and Talisker, Dark Storm Single Malt Scotch were all Double Gold winners; all would make excellent additions to a Scotch whisky collection.

From the Highlands, the Double Gold medalists were Cù Bòcan, Signature; Loch Lomond Classic, Open Special Edition 2023; and Nc’nean, Organic Single Malt. The Double Gold medalists from Speyside are Tomintoul, Cigar Malt; Tamnavulin, Double Cask and Tamnavulin Sherry Cask. Here again, the Double Gold medalists offer an array of aroma and flavor profiles.

The sole Double Gold medalist from Campbeltown was Glen Scotia, Victoriana. Glen Scotia has been a perennial winner in international spirit competitions of late. The Victoriana expression, a single malt whisky crafted in the style that predominated during the 19th-century reign of Queen Victoria, has been a particular standout. According to Blue:

Glen Scotia is another Scotch whisky that has become a classic. If you want to show your friends what Scotch whisky would have tasted like in the 19th century, then Glen Scotia, Victoriana, is a standout choice.

The Single Malt Scotch Whisky 12 Years and Under category finalists were Old Pulteney, 12 YO, 40% ABV and Glen Scotia, 10 YO Cask Strength, 55.3% ABV. Glen Scotia won the category, but both whiskies are excellent additions to any Scotch collection.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Old Pulteney 12 YO as featuring:

Orchard fruit, particularly apple, with spice and vanilla notes on the nose. Sweet and fruity on the palate with prominent apple notes. Long, sweet, slightly drying, fruity finish.

While the SFWSC panel described the Glen Scotia 10 YO Cask Strength as expressing:

Floral, tropical fruits, herbal, cooked cereal, vanilla, and brown sugar notes on the nose. Sweet and drying on the palate, featuring tropical fruits, spice notes, and a bit of pepperiness. Sweet, dried fruit finish, along with some herbaceous notes and pepperiness.

The nine Double Gold medalists in the Distillers Single Malt Whisky 12 Years and Under Category are Aberfeldy, 12 YO; anCnoc, 12 YO; Balblair, 12 YO; Canmore, 12 YO; Glengoyne, 10 YO; Loch Lomond, 12 YO Inchmurrin; Loch Lomond, 12 YO Inchmoan; Loch Lomond, 8 YO Madeira Wood Finish and The Glendronach, Original 12 YO. The Loch Lomond expressions are all exceptionally well-priced and represent outstanding Scotch whisky values.

Four single malt Scotch whiskies from Speyside also took Double Gold medals: Benriach, The Twelve; Benriach, The Smoky Twelve; Benromach 10 YO; and The Singleton of Glendullan, 12 YO. The Double Gold medalists from Islay and the Islands are Ardbeg, 8 YO; Scarabus, 10 YO; Arran, 10 YO; Highland Park, 12 YO; and Lagavulin, 8 YO.

Blue noted that:

Benrich has become a classic must-have in a Scotch whisky library. This is another brand that has greatly benefited from the deft hand of Master Blender Rachel Barrie.

The Distiller’s Single Malt 13 to 19 Years category finalists are Benriach 16 YO, 43% ABV, and Craigellachie 17 YO Single Cask, 46% ABV. Craigellachie took the top award. Both whiskies are classic expressions of Speyside’s fruity style. If you like pronounced fruit notes in your Scotch with a touch of sweetness, you won't go wrong with either pick.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Benriach as showing:

Fruity, with slight herbal and cereal notes, hints of caramel, some vanilla and a bit of waxiness, and old leather on the nose. Sweet, fruity, and slightly drying on the palate with a slight bitter note and seasoned oak aroma. Long, sweet, fruity finish with a touch of seasoned wood. An outstanding and nicely balanced dram.

Craigallachie is one of the critical component malts in Dewar’s blended Scotch whisky. Under Master Distiller Stephanie Macleod’s, however, it is gaining a reputation as an outstanding Speyside single malt.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described Craigallachie, 17 YO, as exhibiting:

Fruity notes with seasoned oak and a bit of spice on the nose. Sweet and fruity with some tropical and stone fruit notes on the palate, a touch of anise/licorice, and spicy notes. Long, sweet, fruity finish with a touch of anise and a little pepperiness.

The six Double Gold medalists in the Distiller’s Single Malt 13-19 Years category from Speyside are Aberlour, 18 YO; Benromach, 15 YO; Mortlach, 16 YO; Speyburn, 18 YO; Tamdhu, 18 YO and The Singleton of Glendullan, 15 YO. Benromach is typical of the style of Speyside whiskies in the mid-20th century. Paired with Glen Scotia’s Victoriana, it offers a master class on the evolution of Scotch whisky over the last century. Mortlach is another classic Scotch that no whisky collection should be without. It also is a consistent winner in spirit competitions.

There are three Double Gold medalists from Islay and the Islands: Talisker, 18 YO; Lagavulin, 16 YO; and Highland Park, 18 YO. The six Double Gold medalists from the Highlands are Glen Scotia, 15 YO; Cù Bòcan, 15 YO; Tomatin, 18 YO; Loch Lomond, 18 YO Inchmurrin; The Glendronach, Revival 15 YO; and The Glendronach, Allardice 18 YO. All nine are outstanding, and all of them are excellent additions to a Scotch whisky collection.

The two finalists in the Best Distillers’ Single Malt Scotch 20 Years and Older are Tomatin Highland Single Malt, 36 YO, 45.1% ABV, and Talisker, 30 YO, 49.6% ABV. Tomatin went on to win the category and also won Best Scotch Whisky and Best Overall Whisky. At an average price of around $1,000/bottle, it’s not cheap. If you can afford it, buy it. It’s a small price for arguably one of the best Scotch whiskies in the world.

Founded in the late 19th century, Tomatin was once one of Scotland's largest Scotch whisky distilleries. Owned since 1986 by two Japanese companies, Takara Shuzo, and Okura & Co, the distillery has kept a relatively low profile and is not well known among American whisky enthusiasts. That’s a pity because it makes an outstanding single-malt Scotch whisky and is worth discovering. If the 36 YO is beyond your budget, consider some of the younger, more affordable expressions.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described Tomatin 36 YO as featuring:

Fruity, featuring apple notes, waxy and leather notes, and a bit of vanilla. Sweet, fruity, and creamy with pronounced apple notes, some cinnamon, and a touch of clove. Long, sweet, fruity finish. This is an incredibly complex, nuanced whisky that offers incredible smoothness and layers of flavors. Without a doubt, it is one of the world’s great Scotch whiskies.

The SFWSC Judging Panel, on the other hand, described the Talisker 30 YO as exhibiting:

Peaty, smoky and earthy aromas on the nose with stone fruit and tropical fruit notes. Drying on the palate, with pronounced earth/peaty notes, a bit of smoke, licorice/anise and tropical fruit flavors. Peppery, with a long, sweet, fruity finish.

There are 12 Double Gold medalists in the Best Distillers’ Single Malt Scotch 20 Years and Older. From Campbeltown, they are Glen Scotia 21 YO and Glen Scotia 25 YO. The latter has been a perennial winner in international spirit competitions and was crowned World’s Best Scotch Whisky at the SFWSC judging several years ago. The Glen Scotia 25 YO is another must-have Scotch whisky expression.

From the Highlands, Tomatin, 30 YO; Glengoyne, 21 YO; Loch Lomond, Open Course Collection 2023; and The Glendronach, Parliament, 21 YO also took Double Gold medals. Ardbeg 25 YO and Highland Park 21 YO also took Double Gold medals.

Ultra-aged whiskies 20 years and older have become increasingly expensive of late, driven by increased demand and a scarcity of aged spirits. The Glendronach 21 YO is double matured in Oloroso and PX Sherry casks and still offers an exceptional value even though the price has doubled over the last five years. If you are looking for a gift that won't be soon forgotten, consider the Glendronach 21 YO. Your new best friend will thank you.

From Speyside, the Double Gold medals were almost a clean sweep for Benriach. The distillery won Double Golds for Benriach 21 YO, Benriach 25 YO, and Benriach 30 YO. Also winning a Gold Medal was Benromach, 21 YO.

If you haven’t tried these 12 Single Malt whiskies, you really should. They are among the finest single malt Scotch whiskies that Scotland has ever produced. They all belong in your whisky library. Benriach, in particular, is indispensable in any Scotch whisky collection.

The two finalists for the Best in Show, Blended Scotch Whiskey, 16 Years and Older, were Dewar’s Double Double 20, 46% ABV, and Johnnie Walker 18 YO Reserve. Dewar’s took home the top prize.

Dewar’s Double Double is a relatively new range from Dewar’s that utilizes a four-step aging process to produce a whisky that the company describes as “ultimate smoothness.” According to the company:

This unique ‘double double’ 4-stage aging process allows the Single Grain and Single Malt in the whisky blend to fuse multiple times in their individual oak casks before being aged together. They are then meticulously processed in a selection of sherry casks for the perfect finish.”

The 20 YO expression is the latest addition to the range. It is also finished in Sherry casks.

Previous expressions, which now constitute the Double Double core range, included a 21 YO expression finished in Oloroso Sherry butt, a 27 YO expression finished in Palo Cortado Sherry cask and a 32 YO expression finished in Pedro Ximenez (PX) Sherry cask. All three expressions are compelling proof that the top blended Scotch whiskies can offer the same sophistication and nuanced complexity of single malts.

A 36 YO expression released in 2022 was only available in travel retail outlets in Singapore’s Changi Airport.

A 37 YO expression that consists of the 36 YO Doble Double that has had an additional year of aging in ex-Spanish Oloroso sherry casks, which previously held Aultmore whisky, was released in May and is also be available exclusively at Changi airport.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Dewar’s Double Double 20 YO as showing:

Fruity with cooked cereal notes and a hint of herbaceousness on the nose. Sweet and fruity on the palate, with a hint of spice. Long, sweet, candied, fruity finish with lingering fruit notes.

The Johnnie Walker 18 YO Reserve is the latest incarnation of the 18 YO expression in the Johnnie Walker range. The expression was initially released as Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve.

The original 18 YO age statement was, in my opinion, one of the best blended Scotch whiskies ever made.

The 18 YO Gold Label was replaced by a no-age-statement Gold Label and the 18 YO Johnnie Walker Platinum expression. Both were good whiskies, but neither was at the level of the original 18-year-old Gold Label Reserve.

The most recent incarnation of the original 18 YO Gold Label Reserve is the Johnnie Walker 18 YO Reserve. The whiskey is among the last expressions crafted by long-time master Blender Jim Beveridge before he retired from Diageo.

The company describes the whisky as representing:

a wonderful combination of both classic and contemporary tastes – blending notes of citrus and fragrant almonds with warm vanilla and a hint of tropical tangerines.

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Johnnie Walker 18 YO Reserve as featuring:

Pronounced ripe tropical fruit notes and a hint of leather, some almond, and slightly waxy notes on the nose. Sweet and creamy on the palate, along with tropical, citrus, and orchard fruit, especially fresh apple and some cinnamon spice. Long, sweet, fruity finish with mild spice and pepper notes.

The other Double Gold winners in the Blended Scotch Whiskey category was a clean sweep for Dewar’s with Dewar’s 19 YO Blended Scotch Whisky and Dewar’s Double Double expressions aged 20 YO, 21 YO RYE (rye barrel aged), 21 YO, 32 YO, and 37 YO all winning the coveted Double Gold. If you haven’t tried Dewar’s Double Double series, you should, even if you are a single malt snob!

Johnnie Walker Blonde was the sole finalist in the Best Blended Scotch – No Age Statement.

The expression is a special edition blend from Johnnie Walker that was designed for mixing in cocktails. It’s sweeter than the typical Johnnie Walker whisky with “prominent toffee and fruit notes,” according to Diageo, and is designed to “bring the best from lemonade, cola, and ginger.”

The SFWSC Judging Panel described the Johnnie Walker 18 YO Reserve as featuring:

Orchard fruit on the nose with notes of apple and spicy Japanese pear. Sweet on the palate with orchard fruit and a bit of caramel. Long, sweet, candied, fruity finish.

The other Double Gold medalists in the Blended Scotch Whisky – No Age Statement were Naked Malt, Sherry Cask Blended Malt Scotch and Noble Rebel, Orchard Outburst Blended Malt.

Invergordon, 18 YO Highland Single Grain Whisky and Loch Lomond, Single Grain Coopers Collection took Double Gold in the Single Grain Whisky category.

If you want to build a classic Scotch whisky collection, then the results of the 2023 SFWSC judging is an excellent place to start. The competition showcased an outstanding array of single malt and blended Scotch whiskies. Proof positive that the quality of Scotland’s golden elixir continues to advance from strength to strength. Moreover, a significant number of Double Gold medal whiskies still retail for under $100/bottle. There is little doubt we live in a golden age of Scotch whisky quality!

See the Tasting Alliance website for more information on the top Scotch whiskies in the 2023 San Francisco World Spirits Competition.

Sláinte