Title: Firefly to operate 737 flights from Subang to Penang and Kota Kinabalu starting 29th August, ticket sales now open
Source: SoyaCincau.com
URL: https://soyacincau.com/2024/07/22/firefly-737-subang-penang-kota-kinabalu/
--------------------------------------------------

With Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport (Subang Airport) finally resuming passenger jet flights soon, Firefly has launched ticket sales for its new jet flights which will commence effective 29th August 2024. Complimenting its turboprop operations, Firefly will operate daily flights between Subang Airport to Penang and Kota Kinabalu with their Boeing 737-800.

To celebrate the resumption of passenger jet services in Subang Airport, Firefly offers promo all-in one-way fares from as low as RM129 to Penang and RM249 to Kota Kinabalu. The promo is applicable for the travel period between 29th August 2024 and 6th August 2025. The fares include 10kg of check-in baggage, 7kg of carry-on baggage and free refreshments.

The daily return flights to Penang and Kota Kinabalu will utilise Firefly’s retrofitted Boeing 737-800 aircraft which offers 189 leather seats in Economy Class equipped with personal device holder, and USB-A and USB-C charging ports.

With the introduction of its jet services, Firefly said it continues to enhance its presence at SZB, with now over 2,100 weekly flights to 8 destinations. The jet operations will complement the existing 9x daily to Penang served by the ATR72, bringing the total of flights between Penang and Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport to 10x daily.

Firefly has also recently introduced a new ‘Neighbour-Free Seat‘ option for selected routes which allows passengers to reserve up to two adjacent empty seats for added comfort. Passengers can place a bid from a dedicated portal up to 72 hours before the flight departure.

Commenting on the new jet operations, Malaysia Aviation Group (MAG) Managing Director Datuk Captain Izham Ismail said, “Firefly’s introduction of jet operations from Subang represents a strategic enhancement to our network, complementing our existing ATR72 turboprop services and ensuring uninterrupted connectivity. We want to reassure passengers that our current ATR72 schedules will remain unaffected. This initiative highlights MAG’S commitment to expanding travel options and strengthening connectivity across our network.”