Title: Blackpink Singer Lisa Makes History With Her New Solo Smash
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2024/07/22/blackpink-singer-lisa-makes-history-with-her-new-solo-smash/
--------------------------------------------------

Blackpink member Lisa ushered in the latest chapter of her solo career just a few weeks ago. The singer and rapper dropped her tune “Rockstar,” which brought her back to a number of charts all around the world. It quickly disappeared from many rankings, but as it keeps on one list in the U.S., the tune helps her make history.

“Rockstar” is present once again on the Hot Rap Songs chart. The single earns a second stay on Billboard’s list of the most-consumed rap-only tunes in the U.S., which has turned out to be significant.

With just two weeks spent on the Hot Rap Songs chart, “Rockstar” is already a historic win. Among tracks by solo musicians known for their work in the South Korean music industry (Lisa is originally from Thailand, but she’s best known as a K-pop star), the new single already ranks as one of the longest-running of all time.

“Rockstar” is now the first single by a solo female K-pop superstar to spend more than one week on the Hot Rap Songs chart. It’s common for even highly popular rap tracks by K-pop acts to debut on the tally and then fall away one frame later, as they are not usually able to hold on for very long.

Psy claims most of the longest-running hits on the Hot Rap Songs chart among K-pop musicians. “Gangnam Style” lived on the list for more than half a year. His follow-up “Gentleman” made a home on the roster for more than a dozen turns.

“Rockstar” is currently tied with two other hits from K-pop icons as one of the longest-running wins ever on the Hot Rap Songs chart. Psy and Snoop Dogg’s “Hangover” racked up just a pair of weeks on the tally several years ago. J-Hope and J. Cole tied that showing with “On the Street” last year.

Lisa debuted “Rockstar” at No. 19 on last week’s Hot Rap Songs chart. This time around, it slips to No. 24. That’s second-to-last place on the roster, so it seems likely that the single will fall away in a matter of hours when Billboard refreshes its rankings.