Title: Hyatt Introduces Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance to Streamline Multi-City Event Planning for Organizers
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/news/4125863.html
--------------------------------------------------

New program aims to provide corporate planners with a seamless, efficient, and centralized approach across the collection of Hyatt properties

Hyatt is proud to announce the launch of the Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance, a strategic initiative designed to streamline multi-year, multi-city event planning across the Asia Pacific region. Building upon the success of the Hyatt Convention Alliance, Hyatt Wellness Alliance and Hyatt Resort Alliance in the United States, this new Asia Pacific program aims to provide corporate planners with a seamless, efficient, and centralized...

CHICAGO – Hyatt is proud to announce the launch of the Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance, a strategic initiative designed to streamline multi-year, multi-city event planning across the Asia Pacific region. Building upon the success of the Hyatt Convention Alliance, Hyatt Wellness Alliance and Hyatt Resort Alliance in the United States, this new Asia Pacific program aims to provide corporate planners with a seamless, efficient, and centralized approach to event management across multiple Hyatt properties in the region.

The Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance will initially include nine premier Hyatt properties across key business and convention hubs in Asia Pacific including Bali, Bangkok, Singapore and more. The combined collective power of these properties can elevate the meeting planning process by allowing event service teams to work together across locations to deliver on planner needs, and enabling benefits and operational efficiency for large-scale meetings and events clients.

The strength of the Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings and Events Alliance lies in our exceptional network of hotels strategically located across the region, supported by dedicated and experienced Event Planning Managers who collaborate closely. Seamless communication and collaboration allow our teams to anticipate planner needs and maintain consistency, enabling flawless experience at their events at participating hotels. When clients need to book across multiple destinations, they can benefit from the added advantage of incentives and offers from our hotels. At the heart of it all is the collaboration we build with our clients, creating lasting value and memorable experiences together. Kate Atkinson, Vice President of Global Sales, Hyatt Sales Force, Asia Pacific

The Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance can provide planners with:

Dedicated Centralized Contact and Support: Dedicated alliance hotel representatives will collaborate to streamline the negotiation and event planning process across participating properties, ensuring seamless transitions from one event to the next.

Customised Packages and Incentives Tailored to Planners’ Need, which could include:

Complimentary Suite Upgrades

Exclusive VIP Club Lounge Access

Curated Spa & Wellness Offerings

Exclusive Incentives for Multi-events

Special Offers on F&B Dining Packages

Up to Triple World of Hyatt Points

The nine participating Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance properties were strategically selected for their premier meeting and event facilities:

Grand Hyatt Bali – A stunning resort offering 24 exceptional event spaces including a spacious 1,202 square meter ballroom that can cater up to 1,420 people.

Grand Hyatt Singapore – A leader in luxury events and conferences in Southeast Asia with over 5,100 square meters of highly flexible spaces.

Hyatt Regency Sydney – Australia’s largest upscale hotel, overlooking Darling Harbour offering over 4,000 square meters of space across 23 flexible spaces.

Grand Hyatt Taipei – A premier venue for corporate events in Taipei offering 850 accommodation rooms and 13 versatile meeting and event spaces.

Grand Hyatt Hong Kong – Offering 21 state-of-the-art event spaces with stunning harbour views including The Grand Ballroom, one of the largest in Hong Kong accommodating up to 1,600 people.

Grand Hyatt Erawan Bangkok – A prime location for high-profile business meetings in Thailand with 3,330 square meters of event and meeting space across 14 versatile venues.

Grand Hyatt Kuala Lumpur – A sophisticated venue in the heart of Malaysia’s capital offering 13 dynamic meeting rooms spanning 4,215 square meters of space.

Grand Hyatt Manila – Delivering world-class service and event spaces in the Philippines with 2,281 square meters of meeting and event space including the Pillar-less Grand Ballroom and intimate Garden Pavilion.

Grand Hyatt Incheon – A key meetings and events hub near Incheon International Airport ideal for large-scale meetings and events with 26 venues and 4,566 square meters of event space.

Among participating properties, the Grand Hyatt and Hyatt Regency brands represent the epitome of elegance and service when it comes to meeting the needs of meeting and event planners, business travellers, and more.

What truly stands out to me when working with Hyatt is how seamlessly its properties across the Asia Pacific region collaborate to deliver creative solutions that prioritize the client’s needs. The Hyatt sales teams, particularly within the Asia Pacific Meetings and Events Alliance, have deep knowledge of each property and maintain strong relationships, ensuring a smooth process for internal referrals and providing clients like me with a variety of exceptional options and benefits. Hyatt customer Trina Butler, Senior Director, Global Accounts at HelmsBriscoe

This alliance underscores Hyatt’s event philosophy, Together by Hyatt, to create experiences and deliver more connected meetings and events, with customers at the heart of it all. For more information on the Hyatt Asia Pacific Meetings & Events Alliance, please visit https://www.hyatt.com/collection/hyatt-meetings-and-events-alliance-in-asia-pacific.

The term “Hyatt” is used in this release for convenience to refer to Hyatt Hotels Corporation and/or one or more of its affiliates.

Sales & Marketing Sales & Marketing Operations & Strategy Markets & Performance

Management CompanyFranchise OrganizationBrand OwnerHotel Group

Hyatt Hotels Corporation, headquartered in Chicago, is a leading global hospitality company guided by its purpose – to care for people so they can be their best. As of June 30, 2024, the Company’s portfolio included more than 1,350 hotels and all-inclusive properties in 78 countries across six continents. The Company's offering includes brands in the Timeless Collection, including Park Hyatt®, Grand Hyatt®, Hyatt Regency®, Hyatt®, Hyatt...

Brand by Hyatt

Around the world, Grand Hyatt hotels bring travel dreams to life by celebrating the iconic in small details and magnificent moments. Located at the crossroads of local culture and global business within major gateway cities and resort destinations, each Grand Hyatt hotel is uniquely designed to be a captivating destination within a destination. Grand Hyatt hotels deliver welcoming and elevated service, first-class accommodations and an...

Brand by Hyatt

The Hyatt Regency brand prides itself on making travel free from stress and filled with success. More than 195 conveniently located Hyatt Regency urban and resort locations in more than 30 countries around the world serve as the go-to gathering space for every occasion – from efficient personalized, high-touch business meetings to energizing family vacations.