Title: Is Blackpink Singer Jennie Headed For Another Solo Hit?
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2024/03/08/is-blackpink-singer-jennie-headed-for-another-solo-hit/
--------------------------------------------------

Blackpink may be preparing for their next chapter as a band, but one of the singers that makes up the quartet could first score another big win on her own. She’s already riding high on the Billboard charts with a previous tune credited to her (and not her group), so she might be headed for a pair of simultaneous wins in America.

Jennie joined Matt Champion on the tune “Slow Motion,” which arrived on Friday (March 8). The tune is credited as a duet between the K-pop favorite and the former member of Brockhampton, who split recently after several successful years together.

“Slow Motion” will likely be powered largely by Jennie’s popularity. Brockhampton was successful enough in their own right, as they landed a No. 1 album in the U.S., but they’re known largely as a group. The hip-hop-leaning boy band saw one or two members break out as some of the more well-known stars, but Champion is just getting started on his own.

In the coming week, “Slow Motion” will almost certainly sell fairly well all around the world, thanks to Jennie’s massive fan base. Her followers, like so many rooted in the K-pop space, are eager to show their love for any piece of music from the stars they adore by buying them in sizable numbers.

“Slow Motion” faces a serious uphill battle for a place on the Hot 100 or other major charts, but sales may propel it to at least one or two Billboard rankings. The tune only needs to sell a few thousand copies in its first seven days of availability to land on the Digital Song Sales tally, which tracks the best-selling cuts in the U.S. Jennie has placed high on the ranking before, and she may be able to do so again with her latest collaboration.

As “Slow Motion” gets off to a slow start, Jennie is still present on a number of other Billboard charts. Her hit single “One of the Girls,” a collaboration with The Weeknd and Lily Rose Depp, is still doing its thing on a variety of rankings. It earns its tenth week on the Hot 100 this frame, making Jennie the first South Korean solo female artist to make it to that milestone on the competitive tally.

“Slow Motion” serves as the latest single from Champion’s upcoming solo album, Mika's Laundry. The singer is looking to make a splash on his own, apart from the band that brought him commercial success, and joining with one of the hottest and most in-demand vocalists in the business is a great way to do so.