Title: Air Premia Adds Its 5th Destination: Seattle
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-premia-adds-its-5th-destination-seattle/
--------------------------------------------------

Air Premia is a South Korean carrier that operated its first international passenger service in July 2022. Since then, it started flying between Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) and Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL), Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR), and San Francisco International Airport (SFO). Now, the low-cost carrier is adding its fifth US destination: Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA).

Air Premia operates five Boeing 787-9 aircraft on these routes. The airline will take delivery of its sixth soon and has three more ordered with delivery expected in 2025. Each has 344 seats, split between 35 in Premium Economy and 309 in Economy Class. Currently, it offers the following schedule:

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL) (4x weekly)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) (6x weekly)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) (4x weekly)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from San Francisco International Airport (SFO) (4x weekly)

Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) will be added to its schedule and tickets will be on sale soon.

Seung-shin Park, Head of Public Relations at Air Premia, said:

Fleet expansion is crucial for growth in the aviation industry. We are developing a balanced route portfolio to enhance both customer convenience and profitability.”

Air Premia’s concept is to fall somewhere between a full-service and a low-cost carrier (LCC). It doesn’t offer First or Business Class, but does provide passengers with meals and other amenities found on major airlines. The carrier wants to have 15 Boeing 787-9 aircraft by 2027. Future destinations that Air Premia wants to serve include Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) and Rome’s Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport (FCO).

Anthony’s Take: Carriers that look to disrupt by entering markets dominated by legacy carriers help to drive prices lower for travelers. With Korean Air and Asiana merging, another choice is welcome and the carrier is continuing to expand.

(Image Credits: Air Premia.)