Title: Air Premia Adds San Francisco as its Fourth US Destination
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-premia-adds-san-francisco-as-its-fourth-us-destination/
--------------------------------------------------

Air Premia is a South Korean carrier that operated its first international passenger service in July 2022. Since then, it started flying between Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) and Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL), Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), and Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR). Now, the airline is adding flights to San Francisco International Airport (SFO) as its fourth US destination.

Air Premia operates five Boeing 787-9 aircraft on these routes. Each has 344 seats, split between 35 in Premium Economy and 309 in Economy Class. Currently, it offers the following schedule:

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL) (4x weekly)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) (6x weekly)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) to/from Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) (4x weekly)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO) will see service 4x weekly beginning in May.

Air Premia’s concept is to fall somewhere between a full-service and a low-cost carrier (LCC). It doesn’t offer First or Business Class, but does provide passengers with meals and other amenities found on major airlines. The carrier wants to have 15 Boeing 787-9 aircraft by 2027. Future destinations that Air Premia wants to serve include Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG), Rome’s Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport (FCO), and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA).

Anthony’s Take: Carriers that look to disrupt by entering markets dominated by legacy carriers help to drive prices lower for travelers. With Korean Air and Asiana merging, another choice is welcome.

(Image Credits: Air Premia.)