Title: Singapore’s Changi Airport Terminal Gets Gorgeous Makeover Inspired by Nature
Source: My Modern Met
URL: https://mymodernmet.com/singapore-changi-airport-terminal-2/
--------------------------------------------------

After three and a half years, Singapore's Changi Airport has revealed Terminal 2's stunning makeover. It's an incredible accomplishment, considering that work began just two months before the airport shuttered its doors during the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, with tourism numbers returning to pre-pandemic levels, the luxurious airport is greeting visitors with a modern flair.

With a design philosophy inspired by nature, travelers are in for an immersive experience that includes lush vertical gardens and an enormous digital display called The Waterfall. Located in the departure hall, the towering 46-foot display transports visitors into a majestic waterfall cascading over boulders.

The transit departure area has been dubbed Dreamscape. With its meticulously curated greenery and landscaped background, the area brings a sense of calm to the space. And for those who know how hectic travel can get, the tranquility is much appreciated. To top things off, a digital sky changes its hues throughout the day, allowing travelers to get fully lost in the environment.

Those looking to grab a bite while they wait for their flight will have the pleasure of enjoying the new Gourmet Garden. The space is strategically located to give panoramic views and is complimented by foliage draping down from above. There are also several bars and lounges scattered throughout the terminal. One even has a robot bartender named Toni who serves beverages in front of an LED screen projecting scenes of the Moon reflecting on a lake.

Sixteen airports currently operate out of the terminal, and their passengers will be able to take advantage of all that it has to offer. In fact, the space is so incredible that travelers will have a good excuse to get to the airport early.

After a three and a half year renovation, Changi Airport's new Terminal 2 is open.

The immersive interior design is inspired by nature and includes lush greenery and a digital waterfall.

The space is filled with so much shopping, dining, and entertainment that it will make you want to get to the airport early.

All images via Changi Airport Group.

Related Articles:

Spectacular Floating Jellyfish Aquarium at Portland Airport

Expansive Greenhouse with Waterfall Planned for Singapore Airport

Singapore’s Stunning ‘Jewel Changi’ Airport Celebrates One-Year Anniversary With New Film