Title: Korean Air to add premium economy on 11 Boeing 777s, plans lounge revamps at JFK, LAX
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/korean-air-premium-economy/
--------------------------------------------------

Fresh off a major revamp to its brand and inflight experience, Korean Air is planning to bring premium economy to its fleet for the first time — and sunset its first-class cabin on about a dozen long-haul jets in the process.

South Korea's flag carrier is also plotting a major upgrade for its two U.S. lounges.

Monday's announcement marks the latest in a series of changes at the Seoul-based airline, which recently got the green light for its acquisition of fellow South Korean carrier Asiana Airlines. Last week it even unveiled a new logo, livery and comprehensive update to its onboard service.

Later this year, Korean will begin updating nearly a dozen of its Boeing 777-300ER aircraft with its first premium economy accommodations.

As part of the cabin overhauls, Korean's 777s will lose their first-class cabin in favor of the mid-tier seats.

Once complete, 11 of Korean's 777s will sport a new three-cabin configuration featuring its Prestige business class — the inaugural premium economy cabin and coach.

Following an industry trend

This move comes "in response to growing market demand," and Korean is largely following in the footsteps of other global airlines.

Some airlines, like Lufthansa and Japan Airlines, have added new and swanky first-class accommodations. But a wider range of carriers have ditched their most spacious seats in favor of slightly less luxurious — but still impressive — business-class suites and pods, complemented by premium economy recliners in the middle of the plane.

Look no further than American Airlines, which is planning to sunset its Flagship First cabins in 2025 in favor of a higher total number of Flagship Business suites — that is, whenever production finally finishes.

Read more: The best credit card welcome bonuses of March 2025

Korean itself debuted an all-new "2.0" version of its Prestige business class last year, featuring the privacy doors that have become a coveted premium-cabin amenity among airlines.

More broadly, premium economy has become a critical part of many airlines' long-haul service over the past decade as a way to cater to travelers who don't want to pay top dollar (or a sizable chunk of miles) for upscale, lie-flat seats, but still want added comfort and improved dining.

Within the Asian market, Taiwan-based EVA Air announced a total reboot for its premium economy — a cabin it once pioneered late last century.

Retrofits for 11 Boeing 777s

Back to Korean: Its first retrofitted 777 sporting premium economy is expected to enter service during the second half of 2025, the airline said Monday. Retrofits on 10 additional 777s — the carrier has about three dozen total — are expected to unfold over the next year and a half or so, with cabin refits running through 2026.

It's worth noting that the 777 is just one of several widebody aircraft Korean flies, including on routes to and from the U.S. Its long-haul fleet includes the Boeing 747 and 787 Dreamliner, along with the Airbus A330, A350 and A380.

The carrier did not announce any refit plans for its other wide-body jets Monday.

'Complete redesign' for Korean Air lounges

The airline did, however, reveal plans for a lounge refresh.

On top of expanding its outposts at its Incheon International Airport (ICN) home base in Seoul, the airline announced "complete redesigns" for its facilities at New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Los Angeles International Airport (JFK).

Those clubs will incorporate "city-themed atmospheres," the carrier said.

Travelers hoping to book flights with Korean Air can use cash, book a redemption using its Skypass loyalty program or book a partner award flight through one of its SkyTeam alliance partners like Delta Air Lines, Air France or KLM.