Title: I'm an Australian living in the US. I route all my flights home through Singapore just to explore Changi Airport.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/singapore-changi-airport-best-place-for-layover-australian-living-us-2024-9
--------------------------------------------------

As an Australian living in New Orleans, I travel home about four times a year, always seeking ways to make the long journey more enjoyable.

I used to route my flights through Europe, which allowed me to explore new-to-me cities before heading home. But once I discovered Changi Airport in Singapore, it quickly became the stop I planned my entire trip around.

I probably shouldn't have been so surprised, seeing as Changi has been named one of the top 10 airports in the world.

Here's why it's always worth it to have my layovers in Singapore.

First of all, Changi's tech is like something out of a sci-fi film

When I first routed through Singapore, I didn't expect much beyond a standard layover. But stepping into Changi was a revelation.

The airport's cutting-edge technology makes travel incredibly seamless. For instance, you can check your bags from different terminals (no matter what airline), and they'll still end up on the correct flight.

That level of convenience is hard to beat.

The face-scan technology used at security and immigration also speeds up the process, allowing me to breeze through checkpoints without the usual hassle.

For the first time, I wished my layover was longer

When I'm flying between the US and Australia — which typically takes a whole day — I usually just want to get to my destination as quickly as possible. But when I stopped at Changi, I wished I had more time to explore.

Now that I've been back, I can say the most breathtaking spot in the airport is the Jewel complex, home to the world's tallest indoor waterfall.

The first time I stepped into the space, I was stunned — it felt like I'd walked straight into a lush, tropical oasis, far removed from the usual chaotic airport environment.

The waterfall itself is incredible, seemingly pouring down from an opening in the glass-domed into a pool surrounded by vibrant greenery. But there are also plenty of photo-worthy spots along the glass bridges surrounding the feature.

In addition to the waterfall, there are lush indoor gardens, a butterfly enclosure, a rooftop pool, and a cinema. It's the perfect place to kill a couple of hours.

It isn't just a place to catch a connecting flight — it's a destination itself

The airport is known for its world-class amenities, and I quickly learned they live up to the hype. From sleeping pods and spas to high-end shopping and dining, it was designed to take the stress out of travel.

Changi feels more like a luxury resort than an airport. Only sleep-deprived travelers know the absolute bliss of having access to a soft bed with silky sheets in a darkened, soundproof room in between long flights.

After a hot shower and a quick nap at the airport, I feel refreshed and ready for the next leg of my journey.

I already can't wait for my next flight to Australia

Making a nearly 24-hour trek four times a year is a hassle, but Changi Airport has made the harrowing journey a little easier to swallow.