Title: New oneworld Lounge At Seoul Airport Turning Away Eligible Passengers
Source: Viewfromthewing.com
URL: https://viewfromthewing.com/new-oneworld-lounge-at-seoul-airport-turning-away-eligible-passengers/
--------------------------------------------------

The oneworld alliance has opened up its first ‘alliance lounge’ at Seoul Incheon airport. There’s been a tremendous amount of fanfare for this week and a half old space. But there are teething pains, because the lounge is improperly denying access to customers with eligible oneworld status, even who are flying business class.

Credit: oneworld

The new oneworld lounge is 6,000 square feet located on the fourth floor of terminal 1, near gate 28. The lounge’s hours are even geared towards allowing Qatar Airways passengers to have access. It is open 7:30am – 11:45 p.m. except Mondays and Saturdays where it opens at 4:30 a.m.

The last oneworld airlines departure, other than on Qatar Airways, is Finnair at 11 p.m.

The Qatar Airways flight departs 12:15 a.m. – 30 minutes after lounge close.

However according to the lounge’s General Manager (who is an employee of Swissport, which is contracted to run the lounge),

[A]ll oneworld sapphire members on oneworld flights are very valuable customers for us and of course are high tier members who can access the OW lounge.

However, even though the grand opening was on the 20th of January, the local Qatar Airlines has still decided to use the existing Asiana lounge. I understand that their plans to use the OW lounge in the future are being discussed internally.

Therefore, we are waiting for the QR passengers to be served in accordance with the QR instructions.

Credit: oneworld

Qatar Airways (and Cathay Pacific) have contracts with Asiana’s East lounges. Malaysia Airlines has a contract with Korean Air for lounge access. But oneworld sapphire and emerald members flying a oneworld airline, and passengers flying a oneworld airline in business or first class, officially have access to the new oneworld lounge.

Generally speaking, oneworld airlines do not even pay each other when their elites access each others’ lounges the way that Star Alliance members do cross-billing for lounge access. So denying, say, an American Airlines Executive Platinum member flying Qatar Airways doesn’t make sense. I’ve reached out to oneworld hoping to resolve this issue.