Title: Korean Air, Malaysia Airlines flights disrupted by pressurization problems
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4247684/posts
--------------------------------------------------

ABC News ^ | June 25, 2024 | AP

Posted on by CondoleezzaProtege

A Korean Air flight to Taiwan was forced to return to Incheon airport west of Seoul after a sudden depressurization on the plane, a Boeing 737 Max 8, the transport ministry said Tuesday.

The ministry said 19 of the 133 people aboard the flight Saturday were sent to hospitals due to ear pain and nosebleeds, but none suffered serious injuries.

Separately, Malaysia Airlines said one of its flights en route to Bangkok on Monday made a U-turn back to Kuala Lumpur after the Airbus A-330 experienced a “pressurization issue.”

Malaysia Airlines said its pilots initiated an emergency descent even though the aircraft had not reached the altitude of 8,000 feet and oxygen masks were not deployed. Flight MH780 was carrying 164 passengers and 12 crew members.

(Excerpt) Read more at abcnews.go.com ...

TOPICS:

KEYWORDS: 737max; airbus; avoation; boeing

1 posted on by CondoleezzaProtege

To: CondoleezzaProtege

But the good news is that Boeing has a diverse work force.

2 posted on by Telepathic Intruder

To: CondoleezzaProtege

Are Boeing’s are being targeted for sabotage of late?

3 posted on by JJBookman (Democrats = Party of Zero)

To: JJBookman

...or are they DEI’ing?

4 posted on by JJBookman (Democrats = Party of Zero)

To: CondoleezzaProtege

Boeing vs Scarebus

1 - 1

5 posted on by oldplayer

To: CondoleezzaProtege

6 posted on by Vendome (I've Gotta Be Me https://youtu.be/wH-pk2vZG2M)

To: Telepathic Intruder

7 posted on by Vendome (I've Gotta Be Me https://youtu.be/wH-pk2vZG2M)

To: CondoleezzaProtege

These are Asian airlines so I’ll go with counterfeit Chinese repair parts.

8 posted on by In_Iowa_not_from

To: Telepathic Intruder

One was an Airbus, one was a Boeing.

9 posted on by pfflier

To: CondoleezzaProtege

I wonder if there’s a common supplier of a part in the bleed air system between the 330 and the Max that has a cheap Chinese component that failed. There are a lot of parts between the engine and the cabin that could fail. Would be interesting to see what the widely disparate planes might share in common.

10 posted on by PAR35

To: CondoleezzaProtege

SHARK WEEK!

42% of all airliners are Boeing.

Its like saying ANOTHER Ford or Chevy.

11 posted on by faucetman (Just the facts, ma'am, Just the facts )

To: Telepathic Intruder

The co pant I contacted for had a made up department to keep the diversity out of the engineering office and shop floor. Of course all the company literature showcased the wonderful diversity.

12 posted on by Organic Panic (Democrats. Memories as short as Joe Biden's eyes)

To: CondoleezzaProtege

I have a suspicion Boeing has been buying counterfeit parts with fraudulent inspection reports and documents. If I did that my arse would be a jail so fast. If you have to wonder why a toilet seat for an aircraft costs $30,000 it is the documentation and quality control. Parts I make will take 5 minutes of actual machine time but a week of time for documentation. If a company is just forging their paper trail watch out.... What’s that you say? Oh right. Nothing will happen. China paid The Big Guy.

13 posted on by Organic Panic (Democrats. Memories as short as Joe Biden's eyes)

To: PAR35

Bingo. There is a lot of overlap between AC manufacturers’ suppliers.

14 posted on by Organic Panic (Democrats. Memories as short as Joe Biden's eyes)

To: Vendome

Once the pride of the US aerospace industry. Now the butt of jokes worldwide. Talk about brand suicide.

15 posted on by Organic Panic (Democrats. Memories as short as Joe Biden's eyes)

To: Organic Panic

“ I have a suspicion…” does not make it so. What is your proof? If you have none, you should withhold your “suspicion.”

16 posted on by DennisR (Look around - God gives countless clues that He does, indeed, exist .)