Title: Another Boeing Planes Suffers Mid-Air Emergency, Plunges 27,000 Feet
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-chat/4246928/posts
--------------------------------------------------

Skip to comments.

Another Boeing Planes Suffers Mid-Air Emergency, Plunges 27,000 Feet

Daily Fetched ^ | June 26, 2024 | Jason Walsh

Posted on by Red Badger

A Korean Air Boeing 737 Max 8 experienced a sudden emergency shortly after taking off from Incheon International Airport, plummeting 26,900 feet before making multiple erratic loops before stabilizing.

The plane, which departed from Incheon International Airport at 4:45 p.m. local time on Saturday, suffered issues with its pressurization system while flying over South Korea’s southern resort island of Jeju.

According to data from Flight Radar, the plane began descending sharply, dropping nearly five miles in 15 minutes.

Commercial jet airliners typically cruise at altitudes ranging from 30,000 to 40,000 feet. So, assuming the aircraft was flying at the upper limit of this range, it would rapidly descend to 14,000 feet within 15 minutes.

Fifteen passengers suffered injuries ranging from severe hyperventilation and eardrum pain, according to the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport,

Independent reported:

Passengers on the Korean Air flight KE189 finally arrived safely in Taichung, Taiwan, a day after it was diverted back to the Incheon International Airport.

Korean Air, in a statement shared with The Independent, said:

Despite the frightening ordeal, there were no major injuries reported. The flight resumed the next morning with a different aircraft, following investigations into the incident by Korean Air.

Passengers described scenes of panic and distress onboard, with oxygen masks deployed and children crying during the sudden descent. One passenger, who was identified as Tseng by The Taipei Times, told the outlet that children on the flight were crying when oxygen masks were deployed during the flight’s plunge.

Meanwhile, a Korean Air spokesperson was reported as saying that the airline is conducting a thorough investigation to determine the cause of the pressurization system malfunction, intending to address any maintenance issues before returning the aircraft to service.

“17 passengers have been attended to by medical professionals in Korea, and have been discharged without severe injuries.”

Watch

VIDEO AT LINK....................

The news comes just days after we reported a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737 flew less than 500 feet to a residential neighborhood after taking a sudden dive mid-flight.

Just last month, another Southwest 737 experienced what’s known as a “Dutch roll” – an dangerous in-flight aerodynamic oscillation that led to damage to the aircraft, The New York Times reported.

The latest incident occurred shortly after midnight on Wednesday when Southwest Airlines flight 4069 was landing in Oklahoma City.

When the plane 737 reached a minimum altitude of below 500 feet, it set off altitude alerts with the air traffic control tower.

TOPICS: Business/Economy; Military/Veterans; Travel; Weird Stuff

KEYWORDS: aviation; boeing; boeing737; boeing737max8; korea; koreanair; max8 Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-30 next last

1 posted on by Red Badger

To: 04-Bravo; 1FASTGLOCK45; 1stFreedom; 2ndDivisionVet; 2sheds; 60Gunner; 6AL-4V; A.A. Cunningham; ...

AVIATION PING!......................

2 posted on by Red Badger (Homeless veterans camp in the streets while illegals are put up in 5 Star hotels....................)

To: Red Badger

DEI? Who knows but the 737 max has had a lot of problems and close calls.

3 posted on by DallasBiff (Apology not accepted.la is not the sharpest knife in the drawer)

To: Red Badger

“Despite the frightening ordeal, there were no major injuries reported.”

I guess they’re not counting soiled underwear. 😏

4 posted on by V_TWIN (America...so great even the people that hate it refuse to leave!)

To: Red Badger

COMPUTER ISSUES???

HACKED????

5 posted on by ridesthemiles (not giving up on TRUMP---EVER)

To: ridesthemiles

Stopped up pitot tubes?..............

6 posted on by Red Badger (Homeless veterans camp in the streets while illegals are put up in 5 Star hotels....................)

To: Red Badger

7 posted on by PGR88

To: Red Badger

Anybody check the bolts on the rear door plug?

8 posted on by Yo-Yo (Is the /Sarc tag really necessary? Pray for President Biden: Psalm 109:8)

To: Red Badger

9 posted on by protoconservative (Been Conservative Before You Were Born )

To: DallasBiff

Maybe it’s a cyber attack dry run by the Chinese...

10 posted on by GOPJ (Will 51 intelligence goons say Biden's NOT 'wired' to hear answers at the debate via a hearing 'aid')

To: GOPJ

James McNerney and all his GE cronies at the time should be in prison already.

11 posted on by stinkerpot65 (Global warming is a Marxist lie. )

To: stinkerpot65

These planes can be hacked, right? That’s a really stupid choice.

12 posted on by GOPJ (Will 51 intelligence goons say Biden's NOT 'wired' to hear answers at the debate via a hearing 'aid')

To: protoconservative

The news report is crap.

True that losing pressurization at 30 to 40,000 is a red alert emergency, pilots train for it. They learn to descend immediately in a manner that does not endanger structural integrity.

This was a controlled decent.

The fact that the passengers became hysterical does not make it any more than it was.

I am not qualified to fly a jet of any kind, but I did pilot my own plane for 40 years and had some very skilled friends who were.

13 posted on by old curmudgeon (There is no situation so bad that the government can not make worse)

To: Red Badger

Hey, what’s up with all these red “REMOVE BEFORE FLIGHT” flags?

14 posted on by Psalm 73 ("You'll never hear surf music again" - J. Hendrix)

To: Red Badger

15 posted on by blackdog ((Z28.310) Be careful what you say. Your refrigerator may be listening & reporting you.)

To: old curmudgeon

>This was a controlled decent.<

Absolutely! Less than 1800 feet per minute. That is a normal idle thrust descent without spoilers or use of Vmo speed. It’s what you experience on every descent to landing from higher altitudes.

This was a mere pressurization control problem. There was no rapid depressurization. The plane did not nosedive. And I can assure everyone that it was not “ making multiple erratic loops before stabilizing.”

I owned my own airplanes too. I also have over 26,000 flight hours mostly in airline jets. I hate reading J School graduates write about aviation matters. I start from the position of believing very little of what they write is accurate.

EC

16 posted on by Ex-Con777

To: Red Badger

” plummeting 26,900 feet before making multiple erratic loops before stabilizing.”

Loops?

17 posted on by DesertRhino (2016 Star Wars, 2020 The Empire Strikes Back, 2024... RETURN OF THE JEDI. )

To: DesertRhino

And a few barrel rolls

18 posted on by NWFree (Somebody has to say it 🤪)

To: Red Badger

Sabotage?

19 posted on by rrrod (6)

To: rrrod

Ice forming on the pitot tubes, possibly.

Or chewing gum...................

20 posted on by Red Badger (Homeless veterans camp in the streets while illegals are put up in 5 Star hotels....................)