Title: Best ways to use Amex Membership Rewards points, from business-class flights to Europe to budget-friendly hotel stays
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/credit-cards/sweet-spots-american-express-membership-rewards/
--------------------------------------------------

It's no secret that American Express Membership Rewards points are one of our favorite credit card reward currencies.

TPG's August 2025 valuations value Membership Rewards points at 2 cents per point. However, leveraging the right transfer partners makes it easy to get even more value out of your points. And with American Express having 17 airline partners and three hotel partners, you have many ways to maximize your points.

To highlight this value, let's look at some of the best ways to redeem your Membership Rewards points — from high-end business-class redemptions to domestic flights around the U.S., there are several ways to stretch your points for the best possible travel experience.

How to earn Membership Rewards points

The best way to earn Membership Rewards points quickly is through welcome offers on Amex's top cards. Here are some of our favorites:

The Platinum Card® from American Express: Find out your offer and see if you are eligible for as high as 175,000 Membership Rewards Points after spending $12,000 on purchases within the first six months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

American Express® Gold Card: Find out your offer and see if you are eligible for as high as 100,000 bonus points after spending $8,000 on purchases in the first six months of card membership. Welcome offers vary and you may not be eligible for an offer.

The Business Platinum Card® from American Express: Find out your offer and see if you're eligible for as high as 300,000 bonus points after spending $20,000 on purchases in the first three months of card membership. Welcome offers vary, and you may not be eligible for an offer.

How to use your Membership Rewards points

You're likely to get the most value from your Amex points by transferring them to partner programs. Membership Rewards partners with 17 different airlines, including Air Canada, JetBlue and British Airways. You also have the option to transfer your points to three hotel chains: Hilton Honors, Marriott Bonvoy and Choice Privileges.

You can book flights or hotels directly through American Express Travel®, but redeeming points with a transfer partner usually results in a better redemption value. This is because Amex Travel only lets you redeem at a set 1 cent per point value for flights, while transfers can yield a much higher value.

Most Membership Rewards transfers process instantly, while others can take up to 48 hours. For more information, see our guide to Membership Rewards transfer times.

Here are some of the best ways to redeem your Membership Rewards by transferring them to partners.

Fly Air France or KLM business class to Europe for 60,000 miles

If you want to travel to Europe comfortably, consider transferring your Membership Rewards points to Air France-KLM Flying Blue. The program prices award tickets dynamically, so on peak dates, you can be charged more than 100,000 miles for a flight to Europe. However, the program standardized saver-level pricing for one-way business-class flights between the U.S. and Europe, meaning you can redeem as few as 60,000 miles (with minimal taxes and fees).

Before transferring Membership Rewards points to Flying Blue to book this sweet spot, confirm award availability by searching for your preferred dates on Air France's website or by using an award travel tool like Seats.aero.

Taxes and fuel surcharges usually add $350 to $450 per person to a round-trip Flying Blue reward in business class. Regardless, round-trip business-class flights from the U.S. to Europe on Air France and KLM often cost over $3,000, so you're still saving a good amount of cash by transferring Membership Rewards points to Flying Blue.

Flying Blue's monthly Promo Rewards are also worth checking out as they can offer a limited-time 25% discount on award tickets in all classes of service. Flying Blue refreshes this sale every month, switching up which cities are eligible for a discount.

Related: Is KLM premium economy worth it on the 787 Dreamliner?

Book Delta One and All Nippon Airways premium cabins through Virgin Atlantic

Virgin Atlantic Flying Club charges as little as 47,000 points (so 47,000 Amex points) for flights from the East Coast to Europe in Delta One business class.

This is substantially cheaper than transferring points to Delta SkyMiles for the same award ticket. With that program, 375,000 miles for a flight to Europe in business class is not uncommon. That said, Virgin Atlantic charges over $1,000 in taxes and fees for these nonstop tickets. But if you're pressed for Amex points, booking Delta One this way could be a worthy trade-off.

Related: Dynamic airline award pricing is out of control — here are some ways to beat it

Availability can be hard to come by, but you'll often have better luck booking at the last minute. To make finding these awards easier, you may consider subscribing to an award search tool like Seats.aero. This program has a handy Delta One Finder tool that shows you routes bookable through Virgin Atlantic.

Additionally, Virgin Atlantic's award chart for All Nippon Airways may be one of the best sweet spot redemptions in the points and miles world. The chart below shows one-way prices.

This means you can fly one-way from West Coast airports to Tokyo's Narita International Airport (NRT) or Haneda Airport (HND) in ANA first class for only 72,500 points or in business class for 52,500 points. ANA first-class tickets often cost $16,000 or more, so this is an easy way to get more than 10 cents per point in value.

That said, booking ANA flights through Virgin Atlantic can be challenging since these flights aren't bookable on Virgin's website. To book them, use a Star Alliance partner site like united.com to find ANA award availability first. Then, call Virgin Atlantic to book your award ticket.

Fly to Hawaii on United Airlines or Alaska Airlines via Singapore KrisFlyer

From the beautiful shores of Waikiki to the volcanoes and waterfalls of Maui, the Hawaiian Islands truly have everything. You can book flights to the islands on United Airlines and Alaska Airlines by transferring your Membership Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer.

You'll pay 13,500 KrisFlyer miles for a one-way economy flight from California, Oregon or Washington state to any Hawaiian island on Alaska Airlines. However, note that Singapore Airlines doesn't let you book Alaska Airlines flights with stops, so you're restricted to booking flights from one of the latter's various hubs. You also need to call in to book these awards.

Those based elsewhere in the country can book nonstop or connecting flights with United Airlines. A one-way economy ticket costs 19,500 KrisFlyer miles, while a business-class ticket will set you back 39,000 KrisFlyer miles. This is often cheaper than what United charges through its United MileagePlus loyalty program.

Related: Save money: How you can book flights to Hawaii using points and miles

Enjoy the world's longest nonstop flight to Singapore in comfort

Singapore Airlines operates two of the world's longest flights: Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) to Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) and New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK).

You probably don't want to spend 18 hours in an uncomfortable seat, so use your Membership Rewards points to fly business class. Both routes cost 111,500 KrisFlyer miles plus taxes and fees one-way for a saver award — a small price to pay for comfort on such a long flight.

Book Iberia flights to Madrid starting at 16,000 Avios

Booking premium cabin award flights to Europe can be a complicated and expensive endeavor, but Amex's transfer partner, Iberia Club, uses a distance-based award chart. Despite a recent devaluation, this is still one of the best options to consider when searching for select nonstop flights to Spain.

Here are the one-way award prices:

Off-peak business-class flights offer the best deal. You can fly one-way from JFK, ORD or BOS to Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport (MAD) for just 17,000 Avios in economy, 25,500 Avios in premium economy and 34,000 Avios in business class. Off-peak dates span most of the calendar year, excluding holidays and the summer months.

Related: 5 versions of Avios: When to use Aer Lingus, British Airways, Finnair, Iberia and Qatar Airways

Lock in stays at Choice hotels around the world

The Choice Privileges program is not as well-known as those from larger hotel groups like Marriott and Hilton, but it's still worth a look. Thanks to its reasonable redemption rates, you can get decent value by transferring Membership Rewards points to Choice Privileges.

For example, you can use 15,000 points per night to book a stay at the Comfort Inn Gurnee near Six Flags in Illinois. This can be a good option for a staycation near Chicago or a stop on a long road trip.

Things get more exciting when you travel abroad. A handful of properties in Tokyo can be booked for just 10,000 points per night. The centrally located Comfort Hotel Tokyo Higashi Nihombashi is one of them. The rooms look solid and are within walking distance of public transit.

Related: Best hotel rewards programs in the world: Which one is right for you?

Book domestic short-haul flights via British Airways

You don't have to jet halfway around the world to get a great redemption.

British Airways Club is the best way to book domestic flights operated by American Airlines and Alaska Airlines. The program uses an unpublished distance-based award chart, so you'll pay more Avios for longer flights. Short-haul domestic flights are the award chart's sweet spots for Oneworld flyers.

Domestic economy flights that are 1,151 miles or shorter can be booked for 16,000 Avios. Meanwhile, flights up to 650 miles in length cost just 12,000 Avios. This is a solid way to use your points if cash fares are otherwise expensive, such as during peak travel times like holidays, conferences and school breaks.

One thing to note about Avios is that it prices award tickets per leg. This means you'll pay more for connecting flights, as each flight is charged separately.

Related: Best ways to redeem British Airways Avios: From flights to Hawaii to island hopping in the Caribbean

Fly Qatar Airways Qsuite to the Middle East for 70,000 Avios

One of the best ways to use Amex points is to transfer them to Qatar Airways Privilege Club to book the world-renowned Qsuite business-class seat. By transferring 70,000 Amex points to Qatar Airways, you can fly from any one of its U.S. gateways to its hub at Doha's Hamad International Airport (DOH).

Qsuite changed the business-class landscape by being the first to offer a private suite with a door and in an optimal 1-2-1 configuration for great privacy and direct aisle access. Seats in the middle can be laid flat to form a double bed, which is an excellent perk for couples and families traveling with a child. You can also expect excellent inflight dining with Western and Arabic options.

Best of all, when booking a business-class award ticket via Doha to select destinations in the Middle East, you can access one of the best first-class lounges in the world, Al Safwa First Lounge. Qatar Airways markets business-class flights within the Middle East as first class. This means that, for example, an award ticket from LAX to Cairo International Airport (CAI) gives you access to Al Safwa during your connection.

Related: Qatar Airways Qsuite review: Still setting the standard for business class (and a mileage sweet spot)

Travel to London via Virgin Atlantic for as few as 6,000 points

Points and miles enthusiasts are no fans of dynamic pricing on airline award tickets, but there is one exception: Virgin Atlantic Flying Club.

The loyalty program introduced dynamic pricing on its own flights back in October 2024. After the change, the cost of award tickets decreased on most off-peak dates, with flights from the East Coast being the cheapest.

You can fly between JFK and London's Heathrow Airport (LHR) or Manchester Airport (MAN) in the U.K. for as few as 6,000 Virgin points in economy. Even better, you can often find one-way premium economy awards for under 15,000 points and business-class awards for as low as 29,000 points. Taxes and carrier-imposed surcharges are also dynamic, but expect to pay between $100 and $400 per one-way ticket.

These are excellent redemption rates, but if you combine them with a transfer bonus, they are even more amazing. In the past, we've seen up to a 40% transfer bonus from Amex Membership Rewards to Virgin Atlantic Flying Club.

Related: Bringing the fun back to flying: Virgin Atlantic A350 Upper Class review

Bottom line

Whether you're looking for first-class airfare, an economy flight home for the holidays or a road trip hotel, you can use Membership Rewards points to cover it all. Use these examples as inspiration for your next big trip. Not only will you have an upgraded experience, but you'll spend significantly less out of pocket.