Title: BTS’s Jin Attends Gucci’s Spring-Summer 2025 Show During Ambassador Debut
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/bts-jin-gucci-spring-summer-2025-show-look
--------------------------------------------------

Traveling all the way from Seoul, South Korea, Jin of BTS made his Milan Fashion Week front row debut at the Gucci spring-summer 2025 show. For such a major occasion, he had to have a fitting look, of course.

Jin wore what we honestly think is his best look to date. The star wore an iridescent knitted sweater that reflected colors from maroon to orange and purple as the star greeted photographers in the red photocall. The sweater exposed some of his chest, perfectly framing various silver necklaces, one featuring a key design, hanging from his neck.

Brown tailored pants completed the look, which was rounded off by a black Horsebit belt and the brand's classic Horsebit loafers, also in black. Jin's hair was styled down and in a wet-like style, covering the star's forehead, which is a departure from the short post-enlistment style we had been seeing him in recent content.

Before he arrived in Italy for the Gucci show, Jin was captured at Incheon Airport, still repping the luxury brand even in his travels. He wore a coordinated black denim jacket and jeans set with a matching black backpack. All three featured the brand’s classic green and red stripes. He layered a baseball tee underneath and finished the look with a pair of chunky black and white sneakers.

This is just the latest of Jin’s fashion-focused activities. Since he’s completed his mandatory military enlistment, he’s been welcomed back with open arms by the industry. First, he was named the first-ever global brand ambassador of Fred Jewelry, an LVMH brand. Then, he went on to become a Gucci global brand ambassador, joining the likes of NewJeans’ Hanni, How to Make Millions Before Grandma Dies star Billkin, and Indian actor Alia Bhatt.

While this isn’t the first time Jin has had a luxury brand ambassador role, this is his first time doing it solo. Prior, all the BTS members — RM, Jin, Suga, J-Hope, Jimin, V, and Jungkook — represented Louis Vuitton under the direction of the late Virgil Abloh. Afterward, the members all pursued individual endeavors. RM became an ambassador for Bottega Veneta, Suga was picked up by Valentino, J-Hope continued his work with Louis Vuitton, Jimin attended Paris Fashion Week as an ambassador for Dior, V joined Cartier as a global brand ambassador, and Jungkook continues to be a model for Calvin Klein.

Now that Jin has completed his first schedule as a Gucci ambassador, we can't wait to see what comes next.