Title: Blackpink’s Jennie Becomes The First Korean Woman On A Billboard Chart
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2023/12/24/blackpinks-jennie-becomes-the-first-korean-woman-on-a-billboard-chart/
--------------------------------------------------

As 2023 is winding down, many of the top musicians in the industry are taking time off. They’re resting, planning for next year, and spending time with loved ones. As Jennie, one of the four singers in the girl group Blackpink, prepares for what may be a huge 2024, her latest solo single has brought her to a Billboard chart she’s never reached before. In fact, in one way, she’s entirely in a league of her own with this hit.

Jennie’s single “One of the Girls” debuts on this week’s Rhythmic Airplay chart. The tally ranks the top-performing tunes at rhythmic radio stations across the U.S., which typically focus on hip-hop and R&B that’s more geared toward the masses, as opposed to genre aficionados. The Blackpink star’s track opens at No. 40–in last place on the tally.

“One of the Girls” marks Jennie’s first time on the Rhythmic Airplay chart–either on her own or with Blackpink. In fact, her accomplishment is much bigger than that. Jennie is now the first South Korean female musician to hit the ranking–at least among those who are well-known for their K-pop output.

While she may be the first to hit the tally among women from the Asian nation, Jennie isn’t the first South Korean artist to make it to the competitive radio list. In reaching the Rhythmic Airplay chart, Jennie joins fellow superstars like Psy, BTS, and Jung Kook, who have all also placed on the ranking at least once.

“One of the Girls” is Jennie’s latest hit, but she’s not alone on the cut. The singer is credited as a featured artist on The Weeknd’s single. He leads the track, as it was written and recorded for his TV show The Idol. The tune also features Lily-Rose Depp, who starred in the now-canceled program.

The same track has helped Jennie reach a number of Billboard charts for the first time, with the Rhythmic Airplay ranking being just the latest. "One of the Girls" also helped the Blackpink superstar debut on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs, Hot R&B Songs, and both the R&B/Hip-Hop Digital Song Sales and R&B Digital Song Sales charts as well.