Title: Singapore's largest outdoor F&B container park will open on Jan 29, with 13 vendors and over 340 seats
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/dining/cosford-container-park-opening-changi-food-stalls-carnival-games-383926
--------------------------------------------------

Come Monday (Jan 29), Changi will have another hot spot that's perfect for Singaporeans and travellers alike. Cosford Container Park is set to be Singapore's largest outdoor F&B container park. Once it opens its doors at 30 Cosford Road, it will be home to stalls serving the likes of Korean fried chicken, smoked meat and cocktails.

Those trying to unwind after a hectic week can also look forward to live performances, a carnival games stall and great views of Changi Airport’s landing strip at Cosford Container Park.

The space spans approximately 35,000 sq ft and boasts over 340 seats for both indoor and outdoor dining.

The vendors at Cosford Container Park include:

1. School Of Cambridge

2. The Blue Lobster

3. Let’s BBQ Bar

4. Boon Tat Street Seafood

5. ETC [Eat That Chicken]

6. Streets Of Bangkok

7. The Slice House

8. JJ Games

9. Tarts Man

10. Hello Butter Chicken

11. Cluny & Luk’ers

12. Creamy Duck

13. Ishiro

Those who are concerned about travelling to Cosford Container Park need not fear as there’s a free daily shuttle service, from 5pm to 11pm, that'll transport you from Upper Changi Road North to the park.

In a press release, Ant Tee, Director of Tee Tree Investments (which developed the park), said: "We are thrilled to launch Cosford Container Park, Singapore's largest outdoor F&B container park in Changi, marking a new chapter in the F&B landscape.

"Positioned strategically near Changi Airport, Cosford Container Park aspires to be a must-visit destination, not only for locals but also for travellers."

Cosford Container Park is at 30 Cosford Road, Singapore 499550. It opens Jan 29. Opening hours are Mondays to Fridays, 11 am to 1am; Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays, 8.30am to 1am. Follow them on Instagram for more information.