Title: Delta Reveals The Fifth Location For Its Posh Delta One® Lounges
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/delta-reveals-the-fifth-location-for-its-posh-delta-one-lounges/
--------------------------------------------------

Delta Air Lines has revealed the fifth airport that will receive a Delta One® Lounge. The premium lounges are open at Los Angeles International Airport (more here) and New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK) (full review here). Previously, the airline had announced that locations were coming to Boston Logan International Airport (BOS) and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA). Now, there is one more one the horizon.

Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) will see a Delta One® Lounge open in the future. No additional information around its location, size, or amenities has been released. Sean Cudahy of The Points Guy first reported on the expansion plans for Delta’s swanky oasis. Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) currently has a Delta Sky Club® in Terminal A (full review here) and a second one will open in Terminal B when construction there is complete.

Delta operates international flights to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS), London Heathrow Airport (LHR), and Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG). These are the SkyTeam hubs of KLM, Virgin Atlantic, and Air France. KLM also offers summer seasonal service to Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS). Delta recently announced new flights from Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (a Korean Air hub) in 2025 (more here). Additionally, flights to Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL) and Maui’s Kahului Airport (OGG) also have access. These would be the only flights eligible for access to the Delta One® Lounge.

It’s interesting to note that Delta’s other hubs (which drive a considerable amount of international traffic) are not currently on the road map for Delta One® Lounges. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) has nine Sky Clubs®, but no immediate plans. Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW) and Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport (MSP) also currently operate Sky Clubs® with no mention of Delta One® Lounges in the future.

Anthony’s Take: I loved the Delta One® Lounge at JFK and can’t wait to check out the other locations. Delta is moving quickly in opening these lounges and guests will have a premium experience in the near future when departing from Salt Lake City.