Title: ARMYs Express Concern Over Airport Security Personnel's Treatment Of BTS's Jungkook
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/armys-concern-incheon-airport-security-personnel-treatment-bts-jungkook-push/
--------------------------------------------------

As BTS‘s Jungkook prepares for the release of his first solo album, GOLDEN, which is set to drop on November 3, 2023, the BTS maknae has had an increase in his personal schedules.

On October 14, Jungkook was spotted at Incheon Airport ahead of his flight to Budapest, Hungary. In news videos of Jungkook navigating the airport, netizens spotted an airport security personnel pushing the BTS member, leading to backlash over what many labeled an “unnecessary” and “inappropriate” action.

Jungkook has been a frequent flyer in recent months, clocking nine flights from September 5 until now, many of which were for schedules in the United States.

Jungkook was again spotted at Incheon Airport on October 14 with a camera in hand as he greeted ARMYs and waiting media ahead of his flight to Budapest.

The BTS member thoughtfully took time to answer some of the Korean media outlet Dispatch‘s questions after admitting his staff said he was pressed for time.

Your browser does not support video.

As Dispatch continued filming the global star, they caught a moment between an airport security personnel and Jungkook, which led to outrage among many ARMYs.

Jungkook was holding his camera as he approached the security checkpoint, saying goodbye to fans and media outlets present. Turning the corner, the gentleman in front of him stopped walking, causing Jungkook to bump into him accidentally.

Your browser does not support video.

Afterward, the security personnel seemed to assess the crowd and Jungkook before touching the BTS member’s camera and physically pushing him backward.

Your browser does not support video.

Some netizens speculated that he was physically stopped because filming was prohibited past that point. While netizens acknowledged that the rules should be enforced, they also acknowledged that physically pushing Jungkook, who was standing still and following instructions, was unnecessary.

ARMYs shared their concerns about the interaction, calling on the security personnel member to do better in the future.

Check out the full video of the interaction below: