Title: Are you willing to pay P8,000 for VIP access in NAIA?
Source: Rappler
URL: https://www.rappler.com/business/naia-vip-access-fee/
--------------------------------------------------

MANILA, Philippines – The new operator of the Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) has clarified the P8,000 fee charged to individuals who want to accompany passengers in the Philippines’ main international gateway.

In a post on Friday, October 11, the San Miguel-led New NAIA Infrastructure Corporation (NNIC) defended the 900% increase from P800 to P8,000 for VIP access at NAIA.

The consortium said it increased the fee since the previous system had been abused.

“The previous system for VIP services, intended for dignitaries and those with special security needs was prone to misuse and abuse,” NNIC said.

It said the previous minimal fee of P800 “allowed virtually any passenger to avail of these privileges.”

“To ensure VIP services are not abused, non-officials will now pay P8,000 per person for expedited service,” NNIC added.

It said this rate “discourages casual use and prioritizes resources for designated VIPs under the protocol.”

Under the new VIP service protocol, NNIC said VIP services will still be free for the following:

high-ranking government officials

foreign dignitaries

other government officials with “critical responsibilities to the nation”.

“Official VIPs are unaffected as designated VIPs retain complimentary service,” NNIC said.

PWDs, meet-and-greet

The NNIC also said that the new protocol “only covers VIPs and private individuals seeking similar services at the airport,” but does affect the protocol for Persons With Disabilities (PWDs) at the airport.

“Services and assistance for PWDs at the airport is the responsibility between the airline company and the airport operator. These are free of charge,” it said.

NNIC said airlines are responsible for assisting PWDs during check-in, boarding, and deplaning. Airlines provide PWDs with wheelchairs, and assists them with luggage and other needs during their flight.

The airport operator, on the other hand, is responsible for accessibility features of the NAIA terminals such as ramps, elevators, restrooms, and designated waiting areas.

The NNIC also said that for large groups, such as meet-and-greet events that require expedited services, “rates will be on a case-by-case basis.”

The operator said it will consider the number of people, level of service, specific requirements, and “relevant factors.”

“Our ultimate goal is to create a seamless and efficient airport experience where the need for VIP treatment beyond what is necessary for dignitaries and those with critical functions becomes necessary,” NNIC said.

“We want every traveler to enjoy an effortless journey through NAIA, regardless of their status.”

The NNIC reiterated that 82.16% of revenues generated from higher fees it is charging will go directly to the government.

It also said that the new protocol is intended to “maintain a secure airport environment.”

The new airport operator recently increased overnight parking fees for cars by 300%, from P300 to 1,200.

The NNIC won a 15-year concession to manage NAIA last February with a mandate to rehabilitate the ageing NAIA, which has been tagged as one of the world’s worst airports.