Title: Singapore Airlines Bets Big On India
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanburgos/2024/01/31/singapore-airlines-bets-big-on-india/
--------------------------------------------------

In an exclusive interview, the Southeast Asian airline’s longtime CEO Goh Choon Phong outlines his plans to turn India into its next big hub.

By Jonathan Burgos, Forbes Staff

Goh Choon Phong, CEO of Singapore Airlines, has plenty to brag about: record profits, nearly full planes, a coveted Best Airline award. But the subject that really excites Goh, 60, is India. “You can just tell how much potential there is,” Goh enthuses in an exclusive interview in late November at the SIA Training Centre near Changi Airport. For Singapore Airlines, the potential of India is more than a way to fill some seats. Goh plans to make it a hub—in effect, a second home for the airline with almost unlimited room for growth. And SIA inked a historic deal in late 2022 to make that plan a reality, giving it a 25.1% stake in Air India.

Of course, SIA can’t be separated from Singapore. It is the city-state’s phenomenally successful flag carrier. Its soigné cabin attendants are emblems of Singapore known around the world. But during the pandemic, all the vulnerabilities of being from such a small country, population 5.6 million, came home to roost.

“We were very badly affected by the pandemic because we didn’t have a domestic market,” Goh says. At the nadir, April and May 2020, SIA flew fewer than 11,000 passengers each month compared to 3.4 million in January of that year—0.3% its pre-pandemic capacity. “It was devastating,” recalls Goh.

That vulnerability has been there from the start, and it’s not because SIA hasn’t tried to build aviation hubs around the region before. In China, it proposed to buy a stake in China Eastern Airlines in 2007 but shareholders of the state-owned airline rejected the deal. A joint venture between SIA’s budget airline Scoot and Nok Air in Thailand collapsed during the pandemic, while Virgin Australia, in which SIA held a 20% stake, was sold to Bain Capital after filing for bankruptcy in April 2020. "We've been looking at ways on how we can participate directly in the growth of the Indian market," Goh says.

This Air India deal is the end-result of a long series of transactions. For decades, Air India has long been a laggard among its Asian peers. Its privatization in early 2022 put the Tata Group in charge—or back in charge. (J.R.D. Tata founded its predecessor Tata Airlines in 1932.) Yet earlier, SIA and Tata Sons had been flying an airline in India, Vistara, since 2015.

Then in late 2022, SIA and Tata announced a deal to merge Vistara with Air India, forming an enlarged Air India group that will have SIA as the one-quarter minority and Tata Sons owning the rest. Singapore Airlines is investing $250 million in Air India as part of the transaction.

After the merger closes in March, Air India will be the second largest airline in the country (by market share of about 23%), according to Statista, after budget carrier IndiGo with a 55% share. (Air India was unavailable to comment for this story.)

India is a valuable prize for SIA. It is Asia’s last big and largely untapped market, with China largely shut off to outsiders and Indonesia relatively mature (dominated by big players such as Lion and Garuda). No other air market in Asia—or even few in the world—offers the same potential.

“India is growing but it’s significantly underserved,” Goh says. “That’s really the strength that India has. It’s not a mature aviation market by any measure.” Last year, over 327 million Indian passengers were expected to take domestic and international flights, up 73% from the previous year, according to Statista. As India’s economy keeps growing, so will air travel, and SIA is now poised to grab a significant chunk of that. And Singapore is already a traditional hub for Indian travelers to many international destinations.

Here's where SIA’s budget carrier Scoot comes into play. Scoot plays a major role bringing passengers into Singapore from smaller airports in parts of India (and those in Southeast Asia) within a five-hour flight time. Scoot uses narrow-body planes on those routes and has ordered nine 122-seater E190-E2s from Embraer for delivery starting this year. These smaller Embraers are ideal for efficiently serving smaller airports with less passenger traffic.

“SIA is banking on the long-term prospects that India offers,” Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst at Japanese brokerage Nomura in Kuala Lumpur, says by email. “Air India has clearly seen some improvements in its operating efficiencies and with a new fleet this will only further improve.” SIA and Tata plan to bring their collective expertise to start raising Air India’s reputation for quality from an also-ran into one of Asia’s premier airlines.

Goh, who has been CEO since 2011, proved his chops as a leader who can plan long-term during the pandemic. The day after Beijing sealed off Wuhan city to halt the spread of Covid-19 in January 2020, Goh called a crisis meeting and concluded within three months that the airline needed a massive capital injection to survive. “We risked having the airline going bankrupt,” Goh says. “It was a very stressful time.”

INDIA BOOM

India is one of the world’s fastest growing air travel markets, with passengers expected to climb 73% year-on-year in 2023.

Goh asked his biggest shareholder, Singapore state-owned Temasek Holdings, and other investors, to inject S$15 billion ($11.3 billion) in fresh capital by subscribing to additional company shares. Altogether, he raised as much as S$23.5 billion, including the proceeds from the sale of convertible bonds. While the airline tried to retain as much staff as possible, it did reduce headcount by around 20% from pre-pandemic levels and ordered pay cuts of up to 35% for top executives.

SIA used the funds to prepare the airline for its post-pandemic future by expanding and sprucing up its fleet. It took delivery of 36 new aircraft during that time (bringing its total to about 200) and is awaiting 100 more from Airbus, Boeing and Embraer over the next few years. The airline was doing this while rivals were cutting spending and mothballing planes. With the aircraft deliveries, SIA expects capital expenditures to increase 48% to S$3.4 billion in the year to March 2025 and reach S$4.3 billion the following year.

It spent S$230 million to revamp cabins on small aircraft on short-haul Asia-Pacific routes, installed more lie-flat seats in business class and now offers free wifi (for all classes) on 95% of its flights. Another S$50 million went to upgrading its lounge at Changi Airport’s Terminal 3.

All this preparation meant that when air travel restrictions were lifted at the end of the pandemic, SIA could immediately take to the air with flights packed to capacity from pent-up demand—and get good prices for tickets. The airline is now almost back to pre-pandemic staff levels and is on a hiring spree. The SIA Training Centre was bustling as pilots trained on Airbus and Boeing simulators and flight attendants trained for the legendary in-flight customer service skills in aircraft cabin mock-ups. “We’ve recruited 3,000 cabin crew last year, and we’ll likely recruit another 3,000 in the coming financial year,” Goh says.

SNAPPING BACK

SIA posted a record annual net profit in the fiscal year ending in March 2023 amid a post-pandemic travel boom.

As of December, the group was flying to 121 international destinations, about 90% of its pre-pandemic capacity. SIA and low-cost carrier Scoot flew about 27 million passengers in the first nine months of this fiscal year (ending in March), up 43% from the previous year. SIA’s passenger load factor was 89% during the period, well above the average of 81% for airlines in Asia-Pacific, according to the International Air Transport Association. Because the airline retained a basic level of crew when flights were grounded, “We were able to quickly deploy flights when the borders reopened,” Goh says.

After three years of losses totaling S$5.5 billion, the bottom line bounced back to a record net of S$2.2 billion in the fiscal year ending last March 2023. In the first nine months of this fiscal year, net profit hit an all-time high of S$2.1 billion—and which should exceed S$2.6 billion for the year, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The convertible bonds issued during the pandemic have been largely redeemed, and SIA’s stock price has doubled from the pandemic lows, rewarding Temasek and other shareholders. “The demand for air travel remains healthy,” Singapore Airlines said in its results announcement on February 20. “Forward sales continue to be robust, in line with capacity increases in most markets, supported by the demand for leisure travel through the school holidays and Easter.” The airline also noted that competitive pressures and rising fuel cost could temper the outlook.

As an extra measure, Goh has extended code-sharing or other partnership agreements to an extensive group of airlines, many of whom once saw themselves as competitors to SIA. To restore profits, these airlines are concentrating on domestic routes and short-haul regional routes, allowing SIA to manage their international long-haul flights, which are sometimes money-losers for these airlines. Of course, long-haul international flights are what SIA does best—and most profitably. “A key benefit of code sharing is it allows airlines to expand their international network in a cost-efficient manner,” says Leithen Francis, managing director of Singapore-based aviation consultancy Francis & Low. “It also helps passengers by allowing them to access a wider network of travel destinations.” The other advantage is that SIA can then put its passengers into those airlines’ domestic and short-haul routes, allowing it to offer a wider selection of destinations at very little cost.

As a kind of cherry on top of the cake, SIA was named the World’s Best Airline by U.K.-based airline consultancy Skytrax last June, toppling Qatar Airways, which held the top accolade since 2019. That circles back to the issue of India and its vast promise. With the Air India deal, SIA will be better equipped to compete with the three Gulf airlines—Qatar and particularly Emirates and Etihad—that dominate routes between the subcontinent and the West.

“If Air India becomes a world-class international carrier with all the reputation of quality service and punctuality,” Goh says, “it would be a very attractive option for Indians traveling to Europe.” For a resurgent Singapore Airlines, dreams of the future are hovering over India.

BIG SPENDER

SIA is planning a dramatic spending increase to expand and upgrade its operations.

MORE FROM FORBES

ForbesInside Saudi Arabia's $800 Billion Tourism MoonshotForbesThese Women Are Selling Mary Kay Makeup From Bomb Shelters In War Torn UkraineForbesThe World's Most Valuable Sports Empires 2024ForbesHow Phil Knight Fast-Tracked Nike