Title: How to transfer Chase Ultimate Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/loyalty-programs/transfer-chase-ultimate-rewards-singapore-krisflyer/
--------------------------------------------------

Chase Ultimate Rewards points transfer to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer at a 1:1 ratio, so you can redeem them for everything from the airline's award-winning first-class suites to inexpensive flights on partners like United Airlines.

Here, we'll show you step-by-step how to transfer your Ultimate Rewards points to KrisFlyer and discuss some of the best ways to redeem them.

Can you transfer Chase Ultimate Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer?

Yes, you can transfer Chase Ultimate Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer as long as you have one of the following eligible credit cards:

Chase Sapphire Reserve® (see rates and fees)

Chase Sapphire Preferred® Card (see rates and fees)

Chase Sapphire Reserve for Business℠ (see rates and fees)

Ink Business Preferred® Credit Card (see rates and fees)

Meanwhile, the following Chase cards earn cash back that can be converted to Ultimate Rewards points if you have one of the cards listed above. These transfers are processed at a rate of 1 cent to 1 point, so $100 converts to 10,000 points.

Chase Freedom Flex® (see rates and fees)

Chase Freedom Unlimited® (see rates and fees)

Ink Business Cash® Credit Card (see rates and fees)

Ink Business Unlimited® Credit Card (see rates and fees)

How do you transfer Chase Ultimate Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer?

Transferring your Ultimate Rewards points to KrisFlyer is easy. First, head to the Ultimate Rewards website and log in to your account. Then, select the Ultimate Rewards points-earning card you'd like to transfer points from.

From the dashboard, click the "Travel" button and select "Transfer points to partners" from the drop-down menu.

You will then be redirected to a page that displays all Chase transfer partners. Click on the Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer row.

You can transfer points by clicking the aptly labeled "Transfer points" button at the bottom of the screen. If you've previously transferred Ultimate Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer, your account will already be linked, so you can confirm your account number and initiate a transfer. If not, you can add your KrisFlyer number (or an authorized user's) to your Ultimate Rewards account.

Now, enter the number of Ultimate Rewards points you'd like to transfer to KrisFlyer. You must transfer points in increments of 1,000, and note that transfers take up to 48 hours to process. Again, points transfer 1:1, so 100,000 Ultimate Rewards points will become 100,000 KrisFlyer miles.

Click "Next" to go to the transfer summary page, review the on-screen details and click "Submit" to process your points transfer.

Points transfers cannot be reversed, so ensure you've already found the ticket you'd like to book before transferring points.

When should you transfer Chase points to Singapore Airlines?

TPG's December 2025 valuations peg Chase Ultimate Rewards points at 2.05 cents apiece and Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer miles at 1.3 cents apiece. At face value, it might not make sense to make the transfer — but in many cases, you can get more than 2.05 cents apiece from KrisFlyer miles when you redeem them for premium awards.

As with any points transfer, compare the cost of booking your desired award ticket with paying cash or redeeming points through the Chase Travel℠ portal. Often — especially when redeeming for Singapore Airlines premium-cabin flights — you'll come out ahead by transferring to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer.

Here are some KrisFlyer redemptions that can give you excellent value from your Ultimate Rewards points:

Book Singapore Airlines ultra-long-haul business class from Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR) or John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) from 117,000 miles one-way, plus taxes and fees.

Fly Singapore Airlines' fifth-freedom route from JFK to Frankfurt Airport (FRA) for 89,000 miles one-way in business class, plus taxes and fees.

Book one-way economy flights from the mainland U.S. to Hawaii or Central America on United Airlines for 20,500 miles, plus taxes and fees.

Bottom line

Transferring Chase Ultimate Rewards points to Singapore Airlines KrisFlyer at a 1:1 ratio can unlock excellent redemption opportunities for booking Singapore Airlines premium-cabin flights and flights on Star Alliance partners like United Airlines. Before you transfer, make sure to confirm award availability and note that transfers may take up to 48 hours to process.

Related reading: