Title: South African jailed after being caught at Changi Airport in Singapore's largest seizure of rhino horns
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/south-african-caught-changi-airport-largest-haul-rhino-horns-jail-4076306
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: A South African man who was caught at Changi Airport while trying to transport 34.7kg of rhinoceros horns to Laos was sentenced to two years' jail on Friday (Jan 26).

Gumede Sthembiso Joel had pleaded guilty to one charge each of transporting 18 pieces of white rhinoceros horn and two pieces of horns from the rarer black rhinoceros into Singapore without a valid permit.

The rhino horns were worth about S$1.2 million (US$895,400) and were intercepted in October 2022. It was Singapore's largest seizure of rhino horns.

Based on the two different species, the prosecution tried to ask for 37 months' jail, quoting the case of Xavier Yap Jung Houn where the sentences for the killing of two sons ran consecutively as they were distinct acts.

However, District Judge Eddy Tham on Friday ruled that the situation was different in this case, as Gumede engaged in a single "transaction" when he checked in both bags containing both types of horns.

Judge Tham said this was akin to a drug trafficker, who was found with a packet of drugs that was analysed and later found to contain more than one type of drug. In those cases, sentences are typically ordered to run concurrently, explained the judge.

He sentenced Guemede to concurrent jail terms – 24 months for the white rhino horns and 14 months for the black rhino horns.

Judge Tham also stated that Gumede was not involved in the acquiring and packing of the horns.

Instead, he had shown up at the airport in South Africa where he took the cargo from his accomplice, a South African man called Jaycee Israel Marvatona.

Gumede sat in the dock listening to proceedings quietly, narrowing his eyes at various points while his lawyer, Ms Stephania Wong from Rajah & Tann, acted for him.