Title: SIA Group orders SAF, offers flyers option to cut their CO2 footprint
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/business/international-business/sia-group-orders-saf-offers-flyers-option-to-cut-their-co2-footprint/articleshow/109917309.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore Airlines, Scoot receive Sustainable Aviation Fuel from Neste at Changi Airport. They provide SAF Book & Claim Units. Neste's refinery has a million-tonne SAF production capacity, reducing emissions by 80%. ASTM standards are met with SAF blended fuel.

MUMBAI: Singapore Airlines and Scoot of Singapore Airlines (SIA) Group have become the first airlines operating out of Singapore-Changi airport to receive Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) produced in Neste ’s refinery in Singapore. Both the airlines will offer corporate flyers, shippers, cargo companies the option to buy offsets to claim environmental benefits.

Starting from May 2024, the SIA Group airlines will offer 1,000 SAF `Book & Claim Units’ (BCUs) for purchase by its corporate travellers, shippers, and freight forwarders, the airline said. “Each BCU represents one tonne of neat SAF with its associated carbon dioxide reduction benefit. Purchasing SAF BCUs allows corporate travellers, shippers, and freight forwarders to claim the associated environmental benefits for flights related to their business travel and operations, validating the demand for SAF BCUs and supporting the development of the nascent SAF industry,” it added. The Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB) Book & Claim system, a trusted industry standard, ensures the traceability and credibility of these transactions, it said. “RSB is a global membership organisation that drives the sustainable transition to a bio-based and circular economy. The Book & Claim system enables the decoupling of sustainability attributes from certified SAF. The decoupled sustainability attributes can be used to generate SAF Book & Claim Units (BCUs), which can be transferred to another account holder and retired in a robust and transparent manner,” said SIA.

The SIA Group agreement with Neste involves the purchase of 1,000 tonnes of SAF, produced at Neste’s refinery at Singapore Changi Airport . Neste will blend the SAF with conventional jet fuel and deliver the blended jet fuel directly to Changi Airport’s fuel hydrant system in two batches – once in the second quarter of 2024 and once in the fourth quarter of this year, SIA said in a press statement. The said SAF blended fuel will meet the safety specifications of the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), an international standard for conventional jet fuel quality, it added. Blended with conventional jet fuel, it seamlessly integrates with existing aircraft engines and fuelling infrastructure, it added.

“This milestone will also mark the first direct supply of Neste’s SAF to airlines at Changi Airport, reinforcing their end-to-end SAF supply chain capabilities in Singapore. This follows the completion of the expansion of Neste’s Singapore refinery in May 2023. The refinery has the capacity to produce a million tonnes of SAF each year, making it the world’s largest SAF production facility,” it said.

“Neste’s SAF, which is made from 100% renewable waste and residue raw materials, reduces greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% over the fuel’s life cycle,” said SIA. The 80% reduction

of lifecycle carbon emissions is when SAF is used in neat (unblended) form and when the emissions are calculated with established life cycle assessment (LCA) methodologies, such as the CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation) methodology. The said calculation includes both production and transport emissions.

Alexander Kueper, Vice President Renewable Aviation, Neste, said: “We are proud that Singapore Airlines and Scoot are our first customers benefiting from our integrated supply capabilities into Changi Airport. This supply of locally produced SAF to Changi Airport is a milestone in our journey of supporting the aviation industry and governments in the region to achieve their emissions reduction goals. Singapore is a leading aviation hub in the Asia-Pacific region and this delivery of SAF, as well as the recently announced national SAF target, will hopefully encourage the wider adoption of SAF across the broader Asia-Pacific region. We are looking forward to expanding our cooperation with Singapore Airlines as well as supplying visiting carriers at Changi Airport.”

Lee Wen Fen, Chief Sustainability Officer, Singapore Airlines, said: “This agreement with Neste is an important milestone in the SIA Group’s journey to have a minimum of 5% sustainable aviation fuel in our total fuel uplift by 2030. Close collaboration with our partners and stakeholders, both in Singapore and globally, plays a critical role in our long-term decarbonisation goals. A more sustainable aviation industry will ensure that future generations continue to benefit from the global connectivity, economic prosperity, and people links that air travel fosters.”

End of Article

FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA