Title: BREAKING NEWS: President Trump Arrives In Busan, South Korea, On Air Force One
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-bloggers/4349320/posts
--------------------------------------------------

After highly successful visits to Malaysia and Japan, President Trump now arrives in South Korea, where he will have crucial trade talks with President Xi of China among other things.

(Excerpt) Read more at youtube.com ...

TOPICS:

KEYWORDS: southkorea; trump Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-40 next last

The man is indefatigable.

1 posted on by SmokingJoe

To: SmokingJoe

Now be nice!

2 posted on by Gasshog (MTPGA <make toliet paper great again>)

To: SmokingJoe

The Park Hyatt Busan is the nicest hotel I've ever stayed at in my life and it was on Uncle Sam's dime.

When it comes to official military travel, sometimes it's the Navy Gateway Inn and sometimes when there are no available rooms in government lodging, it's the Park Hyatt Busan.

This was one of those times.

3 posted on by Drew68 (I haven’t seen the Democrats this mad since yesterday. Save some tears for tomorrow.)

To: Gasshog

To who?

Xi?

4 posted on by SmokingJoe

To: Drew68

Never been to South Korea.

5 posted on by SmokingJoe

To: SmokingJoe

Plane to Busan.

6 posted on by dfwgator ("I am Charlie Kirk!")

To: All

This video is in the growing Rumble catalog to watch and share for those of you that want To avoid using Trump hating Woke Google products

President Trump Arrives In Busan, South Korea, On Air Force One

https://rumble.com/v70xjjy-president-trump-arrives-in-busan-south-korea-on-air-force-one.html

7 posted on by janetjanet998 (Please don’t use google products, especially YouTube )

To: SmokingJoe

The man is indefatigable.

1. who the man

2/Is that English? 🧐

8 posted on by Gasshog (MTPGA <make toliet paper great again>)

To: SmokingJoe

But do you kind of like the music?

9 posted on by Texas Eagle ("Throw me to the wolves and I'll return leading the pack"- Donald J. Trump)

To: Texas Eagle

Yes.

10 posted on by SmokingJoe

To: SmokingJoe

Busan?

Stay off the train ...

11 posted on by NorthMountain (... the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed)

To: SmokingJoe

Before any sitting President goes on extended business tours in foreign lands, is the Vice President sworn in to act in his place? I know there is a lot a President of today can accomplish online or on phones., but that would only be something done from a great distance.

12 posted on by lee martell

To: SmokingJoe

Never been to South Korea.

It's nice. Women were beautiful but then I learned they've almost all had plastic surgery.

We had to fly home out of Seoul which meant taking the bullet train from Busan to Seoul. The train was peaceful, clean, and comfortable with WiFi and made me realize that we are denied such things here in America because we are forced to not only allow access to the underclass, but must subsidize their access as well.

13 posted on by Drew68 (I haven’t seen the Democrats this mad since yesterday. Save some tears for tomorrow.)

To: lee martell

No that is not possible.

14 posted on by Captain Peter Blood

To: SmokingJoe

I didnt know there was a fancy word for never gitting tired out. I learnt sumthin.

Now I am going to bed

15 posted on by Gasshog (MTPGA <make toliet paper great again>)

To: SmokingJoe; Drew68

Incheon International airport alone is something to write home about. Ranks officially in many “Top 5” “Top 10” lists…

On a more poignant note, Charlie Kirk spent his last weekend on this earth, in South Korea. Spoke on a panel, and delivered an incredible speech. Their country is facing a hostile Leftist regime right now, as well as some pointed social and moral challenges - some similar to here, some unique. He touched on it all so well, and lent his spiritual insight to young Christians there in particular.

On his time off, Kirk did touristy stuff, and roamed about. He noted on his channel upon returning, how clean, modern, and safe everything felt.

He visited the General Douglas Macarthur memorial upon arrival in the middle of the night.

After his death, people turned it into a memorial for Charlie. 😢

16 posted on by CondoleezzaProtege

To: Drew68

but must subsidize their access as well.

yeah this applies to our Europe/NATO allies as well and a lot of their…perks shall we say. and social welfare benefits etc…

but I do believe crime and dysfunction and “America Last” has been a CHOICE on the part of both sides of the political aisle in this country. we used to lead the world in tech, innovation, infrastructural marvels like the Golden Gate Bridge — we have lost our collective spirit.

17 posted on by CondoleezzaProtege

To: Drew68

In New York City, the “underclass” don’t even pay half the time.

They just jump the isles.

18 posted on by SmokingJoe

To: lee martell

“Before any sitting President goes..”

We just had a sitting President.

Joe Biden.

Donald Trump doesn’t sit.

He keeps all the irons in the fire.

He is really shakin’ the rats up.

19 posted on by Right Brigade (A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you,)

To: SmokingJoe

In New York City, the “underclass” don’t even pay half the time.

That's why Mamdani can promise free bus fare. The people who ride the buses in NYC don't pay, have never paid, and have no intention of ever paying to ride the bus.

Might as well make it free.

20 posted on by Drew68 (I haven’t seen the Democrats this mad since yesterday. Save some tears for tomorrow.)