Title: A Hiker Was Missing for Nearly a Year—Until an AI System Recognized His Helmet
Source: Wired
URL: https://www.wired.com/story/missing-hiker-ai-drone-recovery/
--------------------------------------------------

How long does it take to identify the helmet of a hiker lost in a 183-hectare mountain area, analyzing 2,600 frames taken by a drone from approximately 50 meters away? If done with a human eye, weeks or months. If analyzed by an artificial intelligence system, one afternoon. The National Alpine and Speleological Rescue Corps, known by it’s Italian initialism CNSAS, relied on AI to find the body of a person missing in Italy's Piedmont region on the north face of Monviso—the highest peak in the Cottian Alps—since September 2024.

According to Saverio Isola, the CNSAS drone pilot who intervened along with his colleague Giorgio Viana, the operation—including searching for any sign of the missing hiker, the discovery and recovery of his body, and a stoppage due to bad weather—lasted less than three days.

The Recovery Operations

With his back to the ground, his gaze fixed on the mountains, 600 meters below the summit, the body of 64-year-old Ligurian doctor Nicola Ivaldo was found on the morning of Thursday, July 31, more than 10 months after his disappearance, thanks to his helmet that clashed with the rest of the landscape.

"It was the AI software that identified some pixels of a different color in the images taken on Tuesday," explains Isola, reconstructing step-by-step the operation that led to the discovery and recovery of the remains located at an altitude of approximately 3,150 meters, in the rightmost of the three ravines that cut through the north face of Monviso, above a hanging glacier.

The team collected all the images in five hours with just two drones on the morning of Tuesday, July 29, and analyzed them using AI software during the afternoon of the same day. By that evening, the rescuers already had a series of "suspicious spots" to check. Only fog and bad weather the following day delayed the operations.

"We woke up at 4 am to reach a very distant point with good visibility on the channel where the red pixels had been detected, and we used the drone to see if it was indeed the helmet," says Isola. "Then we took all the necessary photos and measurements, sending the information to the rescue coordination center, which was then able to dispatch the Fire Brigade helicopter for the recovery and police operations."

The Role of AI

Every drone operation is part of a rigorous method developed by CNSAS in coordination with ENAC, the national agency that oversees civil aviation. "We've been using drones for about five years, and for about a year and a half we've been integrating color and shape recognition technologies, developing them month by month," Isola explains. "But all of this would be useless without the teams of technicians."

Information from Ivaldo's cell phone was immediately invaluable. The two drone pilots who navigated the area were aided by the experience and knowledge of four expert mountain rescuers. "It's a human achievement, but without technology, it would have been an impossible mission. It's a team success," said Isola.

Isola, his colleague Viana, and the few other "select pilots" from the CNSAS know well how crucial technology can be if used properly. "Even in the recovery operations following the Marmolada Glacier tragedy, it allowed us to operate in inaccessible areas and recover all the necessary artifacts," Isola recalls. "It prevented the rescuers from risking their lives."

The CNSAS goal is further collaboration between artificial intelligence and drones to prevent the most serious consequences of mountain accidents and save missing people while they are still alive. This combination can also be used to obtain and analyze information with thermal imaging cameras, which are sensitive only to living beings.

Read More

Ace the Ping-Pong Robot Can Whup Your Ass

Ace can read the trajectory of a ball, adjust the racket angle, and respond with strokes that keep the exchange alive with real players.

DHS Plans Experiment Running ‘Reconnaissance’ Drones Along the US-Canada Border

Autonomous drones and ground vehicles will stream “battlefield intelligence” over 5G along the US-Canada border in a bilateral DHS experiment this fall.

Iran Is Using Tiny ‘Mosquito’ Boats to Shut Down the Strait of Hormuz

Iran’s traditional naval fleet has been almost completely destroyed by US-Israeli raids. But Iran’s military has put a fleet of small vessels on the water that is crippling every passageway.

Do City Delivery Drones Make Sense? No One Knows, but They're Flying Over NYC

One of the country’s busiest airspaces has a new kind of flying machine—maybe temporarily.

Google DeepMind Workers Vote to Unionize Over Military AI Deals

UK staff of Google’s AI research lab hope to block the use of the company’s artificial intelligence models in military settings.

‘It’s Undignified’: Hundreds of Workers Training Meta’s AI Could Be Laid Off

More than 700 people working for a Meta contractor in Ireland are at risk of losing their jobs, documents show.

The Man Behind AlphaGo Thinks AI Is Taking the Wrong Path

David Silver has a new billion-dollar company that aims to build AI “superlearners.”

A Humanoid Robot Set a Half-Marathon Record in China

An autonomous robot from the company Honor ran a half marathon in 50:26, beating the human record by 7 minutes.

He Couldn’t Land a Job Interview. Was AI to Blame?

Armed with some Python and a white-hot sense of injustice, one medical student spent six months trying to figure out whether an algorithm trashed his job application.

I've Covered Robots for Years. This One Is Different

From sorting chicken nuggets to screwing in lightbulbs, Eka’s robotic claw feels like we're approaching a ChatGPT moment for the physical world.

Why Sharing a Screenshot Can Get You Jailed in the UAE

The war in Iran has drawn attention to arrests in the United Arab Emirates over online content, but the legal framework behind that enforcement has existed for years.

A Kid With a Fake Mustache Tricked an Online Age-Verification Tool

To stop children from bypassing its age checks, Meta is revamping its age-verification tools with an AI system that analyzes images and videos for “visual cues,” such as height and bone structure.