Title: Singapore Airlines Bumps Up Flight Frequency Between Seattle and Singapore
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/singapore-airlines-bumps-up-flight-frequency-between-seattle-and-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

885

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Singapore Airlines announced yesterday that it is adding a weekly flight between Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) and Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). This adds 33% capacity on the route as it goes from 3x to 4x weekly.

Flights will now operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays on A350-900 aircraft with 40 Business Class and 263 Economy Class seats. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) is one of six airports served in the United States by Singapore Airlines.

The carrier also flies to:

Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) (service to Manchester Airport (MAN), which I’ll be flying in August)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR)

New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO)

Anthony’s Take: Singapore is one of my favorite global cities (largely because I love to eat my way through it). It’s great to see that demand warrants another flight between the US and Singapore.

(Image Credit: Singapore Airlines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.