Title: Lounge Review: SATS Premier Lounge (Terminal 1) – Singapore Changi Airport (SIN)
Source: Theshutterwhale.com
URL: https://theshutterwhale.com/blog/2023/6/23/lounge-review-sats-premier-lounge-terminal-1-singapore-changi-airport-sin
--------------------------------------------------

While I typically use one of the Singapore Airlines lounges when departing from Singapore Changi Airport (SIN), this is not an option when I have flights departing from Terminal 1 on a different airline. I typically visit the Plaza Premium Lounge in this situation but my experiences there have been pretty lackluster lately so I decided to drop by the SATS Premier Lounge this time by using the unlimited Priority Pass membership that comes with my Citi Prestige Card.

Click HERE for the best credit card sign-up offers!

If you are familiar with where the Qantas International Business Lounge Singapore and British Airways Lounge are in Terminal 1, the SATS Premier Lounge is located directly between both of them. At the time of writing, there are four airport lounges in Changi Airport that are SATS-branded (even though the one in Terminal 4 is a joint partnership with Plaza Premium Lounge). There are various seating configurations in the SATS Premier Lounge here in Terminal 1 that cater to different groups of travellers - there is even a dedicated quiet zone (more on this later!) for those who wish to catch up on some work before their flights.

The lounge design is actually pretty nice and there is even a dedicated dining area for those wanting to snack on a fuller meal (like a bowl of laksa that Singaporeans typically associate with traveling). As I was taking a direct flight from Singapore to Kuantan via Scoot that departs in the afternoon, I visited the lounge in the morning and it was actually relatively quiet (in a good way).

Travellers who visit the SATS Premier Lounge may help themselves to dishes from the buffet line - depending on the time of visit, the items on offer may be different. Since I got there in the morning, most of the dishes were more breakfast-focused (e.g. scrambled eggs, congee, and the like of that). Similar to the Plaza Premium Lounge in the same terminal, laksa is offered here in the SATS Premier Lounge but you will have to DIY here - the upside is that you will not be getting a dirty look when you try to order it.

Since it was breakfast, there was also a small selection of sliced fruits and yogurt in one of the refrigerated areas - nothing fancy but it gets the job done for those looking for a lighter option. Breakfast cereal as well as instant cup noodles are also offered on the other side of the table.

In the event that you do not have access to a proper airline lounge (or only have access to the KrisFlyer Gold Lounge), the SATS Premier Lounge offers sparkling wine (cava to be exact) for those who crave it. There is also a selection of house spirits - limited to just vodka, gin, and whisky - as well as red and white wine. I did have to ask for a bottle of cava to be replenished since the empty bottle was just sitting there for the longest time but it is not a big deal. Before I became a PPS Club member, I used to drop by the SATS Premier Lounges for a few glasses for sparkling (since the KrisFlyer Gold Lounge has none) before my flight.

The SATS Premier Lounge in Terminal 1 has a unique area towards the back of the lounge that resembles some kind of spa (with a small water feature in the middle). This is a much quieter area and while it does not actually restrict passengers from talking loudly or making noise, you will immediately notice that this area is more suited for those traveling alone, or business travellers who wish to get some work done before their flight.

This quiet area is probably not suited for larger families as the seating configuration benefits those who are either traveling alone or as a couple. I do like that the SATS Premier Lounge in Terminal 1 has this dedicated area (other Terminals do not offer the same) as people are typically more mindful of noise here.

Located at the back of the quiet area are small private booths which are perfect for getting some last-minute work done. Each booth also comes equipped with a universal power outlet so you do not have to worry about your laptop running out of juice in the middle of a zoom call or presentation.

As I have now found out that is customary for Singaporeans to have a bowl of laksa before their flight, you would be pleased to know that SATS Premier Lounge offers a pretty decent laksa gravy. Despite it being a morning flight, I have also decided to indulge in a few glasses of cava since I was on vacation but hey, there is no judgement in airport lounges because some of us are dealing with jetlag (or just problems in general).

I am not sure why but a lot of hot dishes (e.g. laksa gravy) in airport lounge are now served lukewarm - even at the SilverKris Lounge. Thankfully, the congee that I had at the lounge was served at the right temperature and it was actually pretty tasty.

Since Scoot was the only airline that flew direct to Kuantan from Singapore, this was the most sensible option and honestly, the lounge is more than sufficient for a short stopover to refuel. Priority Pass members can also utilise their lounge entitlements to enjoy a full meal at selected restaurants in Singapore Changi Airport.