Title: The New Porsche Studio Comes to Singapore
Source: Luxuo.com
URL: https://www.luxuo.com/homepage-slider/the-new-porsche-studio-comes-to-singapore.html
--------------------------------------------------

The month of March sees Porsche Singapore’s activations come to fruition as Porsche Studio Singapore opens its doors. First off, Porsche Singapore unveils a new studio space. As part of the opening, fans can get up close and personal with groundbreaking concepts, visionary designs, and iconic models that will be taking place across Singapore. Next, the Porsche Vision Gran Turismo Vexx goes from virtual to reality at Vortex Jewel Changi Airport. Third, the exclusive Porsche Vision Renndienst “Race Service” concept makes its first appearance in Asia at Singapore’s Porsche Studio and finally, Porsche Studio Singapore is transformed to feature special exhibits from artist Cyril Kongo and Porsche Lifestyle.

Vision Gran Turismo Art Car Takes Centre Stage at Jewel

March sees the debut of Porsche Vision Gran Turismo Vexx concept car. Crafted in collaboration with renowned multidisciplinary visual artist Vexx, this masterpiece of design and engineering will make its Asian premiere at the stunning Vortex water fountain at Jewel Changi Airport.

Making the jump from the digital world to reality, The Vision Gran Turismo features future-oriented versions of familiar Porsche design elements as seen on the “Gran Turismo” game series. The concept car exhibits the brand’s signature proportions with an especially sporty height-to-width ratio, an extremely low-set bonnet and pronounced wings. The lights in the particularly purist front and the integrated air intakes create a visual link to the design language of the Taycan – a nod to the car’s purely electric drive. The rear is adorned with a markedly narrow light strip – a further development of the light signature that is familiar from the 911 and Taycan models.

Vision Renndienst Porsche Concept Arrives at Porsche Studio Singapore

Hailing from Germany, the revolutionary Porsche Vision “Renndienst” or “Race Service” Porsche concept car will make its maiden voyage outside Europe, making its regional debut at the new Porsche Studio Singapore.

Boasting a futuristic design language and an interior that redefines luxury and sportiness, the Vision “Renndienst” is Porsche’s exploration of a family-friendly shuttle. The driver of the Porsche Vision “Renndienst” sits in a central lounge chair for a sporty driving experience, while also giving the rear passengers a clear view to the front. The all-electric drive technology is also located in the underbody for space efficiency.

Special Exhibits From Artist Cyril Kongo and Porsche Lifestyle

The Porsche Lifestyle Shop on the ground floor transforms to feature the latest “Turbo” line of apparel, inspired by the first prototype 911 “Turbo #1” gifted by the late Ferry Porsche to his sister, Louise Piëch. Alongside this collection is a motorsport-themed ‘pit lane’ featuring the latest “Fanwear” apparel collection from Porsche Motorsport – complete with full-length wall graphics resembling a tire change in motion when viewed from outside the studio.

Building on this motorsport theme, a special Porsche 991.2 911 GT3 R sits in the car hoist, a vibrant art car showcase by French-Vietnamese artist Cyril Kongo. The race car competed in the gruelling Porsche Sprint Challenge China and Macau Grand Prix race series before it was subsequently acquired by a private collector in Singapore. Inspired by Kongo’s unique style, the owner handed the car over as a blank canvas – and Kongo’s signature graffiti style ensued.

This list of exhilarating events and activations happening throughout March 2024 are more than just frivolous brand fodder, they are specially curated concepts designed to branch into Singapore’s luxury automotive market, presenting signature artistic flair to meet local and regional consumer tastes.

Visit Porsche Studio Singapore at Guoco Midtown, 130 Beach Road #01-12, Singapore 189774