Title: Kummute now offers CB Taxi. Licensed cross-border taxi service between Malaysia and Singapore
Source: SoyaCincau.com
URL: https://soyacincau.com/2025/10/02/kummute-cb-taxi-licence-cross-border-taxi-malaysia-singapore/
--------------------------------------------------

Kummute (pronounced as “commute”), the platform which currently offers Kumpool and Kumride, has introduced CB Taxi. This is a Cross-Border taxi service that lets you book on-demand rides between Singapore and Malaysia across the Causeway on your smartphone.

Before this, licensed and legal cross-border taxis operate manually which requires users to book at physical counters or deal directly with the drivers themselves via phone. With Kummute, commuters can enjoy greater convenience as they can now book their rides digitally on their smartphone. As a result, there’s no need to queue and you can secure your ride quicker with greater visibility.

On top of that, the payment is also done in-app, enabling a cashless experience for both drivers and passengers.

CB Taxi taps on existing licensed cross-border taxis which include 6-seater MPVs and 4-seater sedans. Both Malaysia and Singapore government have issued 200 permits for each country to operate the cross-border transport service.

According to Kummute, all CB taxi drivers on their platform are officially licensed by APAD Malaysia.

Under Phase 1, CB Taxi focuses on digitalising bookings while keeping the existing pick-up and drop-off points. Malaysian taxis are able to pick up passengers from any point in Malaysia but they can only drop-off passengers at the designated point located at Ban San Street in Singapore.

Meanwhile, Singapore taxis are able to pick-up passengers from any point in Singapore but they can only drop them off at Larkin Terminal in Johor Bahru.

Take note that, customers currently can only book CB Taxi from Malaysia to Singapore. CB Taxi bookings from Singapore to Malaysia will be enabled later.

In the upcoming Phase 2, Kummute aims to introduce seamless door-to-door service where passengers can just book once and enjoy convenient interchanges at both Larkin and Ban San Street.

How to request for CB Taxi via Kummute

To get started, download the Kummute app which is available on the Google Play Store and Apple App Store.

Tap on Book a CB Taxi and then tap on Book New Trip. Depending on the direction, tap on either SG Taxi or MY Taxi, and then enter your pick up and drop-off address.

The Kummute app lets you book a timeslot as little as 30 minutes up to two days in advance.

Once the driver has accepted the booking, the details will appear in your app. Users can cancel their booking but take note that there will be no refunds if you cancel less than 12 hours before the booking time.

CB Taxi fares between Malaysia and Singapore

Here’s how much you would expect to pay using CB Taxi. If you book a MY Cross-Border Taxi from Larkin Terminal to Ban San Street, it will cost you RM198.59. Meanwhile, a booking from Senai Airport to Ban San Street costs RM217.80 while a booking from JPO in Kulai to Ban San Street costs RM219.40.

You can even book from Kuala Lumpur to Ban San Street too and the listed fare is RM747. If you’re travelling from Melaka, it will cost you RM435.69 while a trip from Perlis will cost you RM1505.40.

UPDATE: CB Taxi Singapore to Malaysia bookings are not available yet and it is coming soon.

If you’re coming from Singapore to Malaysia, it will cost you SGD 68 (about RM222.23) to book from Ban San Street to Johor Bahru. Meanwhile, a booking from Changi Airport to Larkin costs SGD 128 (about RM418.32) and from Marina Bay Sands to Larkin costs SGD 88 (about RM287.60).

As shown above, the fare is calculated based on distance. There’s a booking fee of RM25 for MY Taxi and SGD 8 for SG Taxi, which is included in the total amount.

CB Taxi accepts online banking, credit/debit card and eWallet payments

When it comes to payment, the Kummute app accepts online banking payment via FPX which covers all the major banks in Malaysia. It There’s also the option to pay via Credit and Debit cards, as well as eWallets which include Alipay, GrabPay, ShopeePay, TNG eWallet, WeChat Pay and Boost.