Title: The best international airport hotels
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/hotel/best-international-airport-hotels/
--------------------------------------------------

Airport hotels can be a blessing or a curse ... it depends on why you're there, right? On the positive front, an airport hotel might be a much-needed respite between long international flights or a place to call home the night before an early morning departure. On the flip side, sometimes an airport hotel is where you begrudgingly end up because of stressful delays or cancellations.

Whichever reason you find yourself booking one, though, not all airport hotels are created equal. And some of the best-of-the-best airport hotels are found at major international airports around the world.

Here, you'll find a look at a handful of TPG's favorites, from the crown jewel, Crown Plaza at Singapore's out-of-this-world Changi Airport (SIN), to a soundproofed Fairmont where the motto is "where layover meets luxury" — and plenty of others in between.

Related: First look: Inside the newly renovated Grand Hyatt DFW — one of the best airport hotels in the US

Hilton Munich Airport — Munich, Germany

A hotel just steps away from airline check-in desks, and one with a Michelin-starred restaurant on-site? You'll find this traveler's dream-come-true at Munich International Airport (MUC). Sure, come for the comfortable rooms and a relaxing place to recharge, but stick around a little longer to enjoy a meal at Mountain Hub Gourmet, followed by a nightcap under the towering atrium at Nightflight Bar.

And if you need to sit somewhere a little more formal for a business call, you can check into the executive lounge (with Hilton Honors Diamond or Diamond Reserve status or select room types). If that's not enough to entice you, there's a spa with an indoor swimming pool, day-use rooms for a quick turnaround trips, and event and meeting spaces. And for what it's worth, more than just a few TPG staff members mentioned this hotel as a favorite.

Rates at Hilton Munich Airport start from $171 or 53,000 Hilton Honors points per night.

Hyatt Regency Zurich Airport The Circle — Zurich, Switzerland

Just steps away from Zurich Airport (ZRH), this Swiss-centric Hyatt Regency is a great place to rest up ahead of a flight out of Switzerland's biggest airport. There, guests can check into totally relaxing park-facing rooms with floor-to-ceiling windows, not the norm for a typical airport hotel. There's even a Regency Club for elite members with access for folks who book a club-level room or suite. If you can't get into the lounge, there's still a Lebanese restaurant and hotel bar, plus other highend perks like a sauna to help relax before jetting off.

Rates at Hyatt Regency Zurich Airport The Circle start from $250 per night. A World of Hyatt Category 5 property, award availability starts at 17,000 points per night.

Fairmont Vancouver Airport — Vancouver, British Columbia

Fairmont Hotels & Resorts is one of Canada's legendary hospitality companies, and it makes no exceptions when it comes to airport hotels. At Fairmont Vancouver Airport, an in-airport property located above the E Gates, the little differences go a long way. Think soundproof windows to ensure a restful sleep, a restaurant with sweeping views and wellness-focused experiences like pools, saunas and a 24-hour fitness center. In fact, you don't even have to stay at the Fairmont to take advantage of its health club; three-hour passes are available for $30.

Rates at Fairmont Vancouver Airport start from $250 per night. Accor Live Limitless (ALL) members can redeem points for a fixed rate worth about 2 cents each.

Crowne Plaza Changi Airport — Singapore

A legend among airport hotels, the Crown Plaza Changi Airport, located at Terminal 3 of Changi Airport (SIN), is an easy place to rest up at one of the best airports in the world. With 575 rooms and suites, the hotel is massive and offers everything from an outdoor pool for a swim to a club lounge with buffet-style meals. Even better, the hotel is easily connected to airport terminals and the indoor waterfall at the airport's Jewel experience, something that shouldn't be missed by any traveler passing through Singapore.

Rates at Crowne Plaza Changi Airport start from $239 per night. IHG One Rewards members can book from 43,000 points.

Hilton Rome Airport

To get between the Hilton Rome Airport and Leonardo Da Vinci International Airport (FCO), guests don't even have to walk —because moving walkways down a covered path will get you there. Once inside the hotel, great things await, like an indoor pool, an all-day restaurant with Italian and international fare, and sleek rooms perfect for catching a few hours' sleep in between flights.

Rates at Hilton Rome Airport start from $250 or 65,000 Hilton Honors points per night.

Oryx Airport Hotel — Doha, Qatar

At Hamad International Airport (DOH), there's no better place to stay than Oryx Airport Hotel, located above the Hermes store in the airport's South Plaza. Convenience is key at this hotel, and the location alone makes it a winner for transiting Doha. But everything else is what will make you want to keep coming back, like an indoor swimming pool, a fantastic gym, a spa, squash courts and even virtual golf. One other great bonus is that room service is available 24/7 so no matter what time you get to your room, you don't have to worry about being hungry.

Rates at Oryx Airport Hotel start from $205 per night.

Hilton Amsterdam Airport Schiphol

Set in a design-forward towering building next to bustling Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS), this hotel is easily accessible via a covered walk. Inside, guests will find chic rooms, with many looking into the interior courtyard; a spa with treatment services, a sauna, steam room and pool; and a large restaurant and cute cocktail bar. Best of all, you can book a stay with Hilton Honors points.

Rates at Hilton Amsterdam Airport Schiphol start from $275. Hilton Honors members can book award nights from 60,000 points per night.

Sheraton Gateway Hotel — Toronto, Canada

Multiple TPG staffers vouched for the Sheraton Gateway Hotel at Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ). Located right in Terminal 3, the team was quick to note that the property has comfortable rooms and a very solid club lounge for folks with access. For TPG's editor-in-chief Nick Ewen, day-room rentals were a godsend after managing flight cancellations and a sick child. Not to mention the hotel has an indoor heated pool, a gym, a lounge-like restaurant and room service.

Rates at Sheraton Gateway Hotel start from $270 or 44,000 Marriott Bonvoy points per night.

Hilton Frankfurt Airport

Another Hilton favorite among the TPG staff, the Hilton Frankfurt Airport is a convenient stay for folks passing through Frankfurt. Connected to the airport via a covered pedestrian bridge, the hotel has contemporary rooms (including connected rooms perfect for families), an executive lounge for eligible guests (inclusive of a buffet breakfast), and a few other bars and restaurants on-site.

Rates at Hilton Frankfurt Airport start from $180 or 52,000 Hilton Honors points per night.

Related reading: