Title: Talking About The Rolex Certified Pre-Owned Program — An Interview With David Bijlsma Of Gassan
Source: Fratellowatches.com
URL: https://www.fratellowatches.com/rolex-certified-pre-owned-program-gassan-interview/
--------------------------------------------------

About two years ago, Rolex announced its Certified Pre-Owned program. It’s a partnership between Rolex and several official retailers worldwide. In short, these retailers can now offer pre-owned Rolex watches with a brand-issued authenticity certificate and a two-year international warranty. Recently, I sat down with David Bijlsma, Chief Commercial Officer at Gassan, to talk about the Rolex Certified Pre-Owned program and get a better understanding of what it offers to customers.

Rolex Certified Pre-Owned at Gassan

Gassan is a family-owned business with 15 stores in the Netherlands (including those at Schiphol Airport). The company also has seven stores at Changi Airport in Singapore. I visited David Bijlsma at the House of Gassan in the center of Amsterdam. The company started in 1945 as a diamond cutter at this location, but it now has several in-store boutiques and service departments. Needless to say, it includes an impressive-sized Rolex boutique and Rolex service department. But we sat down in Gassan’s room for pre-owned watches, a big space that reminded me of a luxuriously decorated apartment with comfy sofas.

A living-room experience

It’s a homey atmosphere that Gassan has created, and it’s the perfect setting to have a look at some of the stunning pre-owned watches (from all sorts of brands, including ones Gassan doesn’t carry as a retailer) while enjoying a coffee. Large windows bring the perfect amount of daylight, which was originally to ensure the diamond cutters had the best light to do their tasks. These days, it’s perfect for studying watches with natural light rather than hard spotlights.

An interview with David Bijlsma, Chief Commercial Officer at Gassan

On David Bijlsma’s wrist was a Rolex Explorer II ref. 1655 from 1971 with its original Oyster bracelet. As this watch is from his birth year, it is his prized possession. It was also a perfect watch for the occasion, a discussion about the Rolex Certified Pre-Owned (CPO) program offered through Gassan.

Robert-Jan Broer (RJB): Gassan already has experience selling pre-owned watches. The Rolex CPO program brings a “certified and guaranteed” policy, but one can assume you already only offered authentic, warranty-covered pre-owned Rolex watches to customers. What’s the advantage for the customer when buying a Rolex from the CPO collection compared to your previous pre-owned Rolex collection?

David Bijlsma (DB): What I love about Rolex is that the watches are made to last for generations. We always ensured these watches were checked and verified by our team of competent and Rolex-certified watchmakers at Gassan. In addition to this, with the Rolex CPO program, Rolex checks each watch to verify its authenticity once more. It’s added value for the customer that Rolex also ensures the watch ticks all the boxes. Only Rolex watches three years and older qualify for this program, but there’s no maximum age. That means that even watches 50 years or older can be purchased through this program.

RJB: Is a vintage Rolex still covered by the warranty for two years, then?

DB: Yes, but we will advise customers not to treat a vintage watch the same way as a modern one. It’s a bit like classic cars; you will drive and treat those differently from a modern one too. Customers should know that a folded vintage Rolex bracelet is not the same as a modern one. It would be best if they treated vintage watches with care, and we will make sure that they are aware of this.

RJB: Do you think the Rolex CPO program will draw in customers who usually buy a pre-owned Rolex elsewhere (not CPO)? In other words, do you expect to sell more pre-owned Rolex watches now that you offer them via CPO?

DB: Indeed, I expect to sell more pre-owned Rolex watches this way. I now get people in here who usually wouldn’t even consider buying a pre-owned watch. Often, they’re already customers of Gassan, and now they see our pre-owned boutique with our selection of watches. With the Rolex CPO, they get a two-year factory warranty, which offers them extra confidence to buy pre-owned. We love the program because both Rolex and Gassan want to offer quality in everything we do, ensuring customers are happy. We have many clients, and some even have been with us for generations, so we don’t settle for anything less. So as soon as Rolex started with the CPO, we were enthusiastic and convinced of its success.

RJB: What about the price differences between the non-certified pre-owned watches and those in the CPO program?

DB: We need to ensure that the pricing stays competitive. However, doing these extra checks and ensuring authenticity and quality does come at a certain cost. We see that customers are willing to pay a bit extra to have that confidence when buying a pre-owned Rolex. Also, keep in mind that a pre-owned Rolex with official authentication and a factory warranty is more exclusive than other offerings in the pre-owned market.

RJB: So, what happens when someone offers you a Rolex for your Rolex CPO program?

DB: This service is only for those who want to sell a watch to us. The certification is not for someone who owns a Rolex and wants to have it certified. When someone offers us a Rolex watch, we do some preliminary checks to make sure everything is authentic. We have a Rolex-exclusive service department that has a lot of expertise. If the watch passes all the checks, we’ll be confident in purchasing it. After the purchase, the watch will receive a service, and Rolex will authenticate it.

RJB: What happens if the watch has been a replacement bracelet, dial, hands, and so on from past services? Will it still pass Rolex’s authenticity check?

DB: If all the replacement parts can be identified as genuine Rolex parts, yes, it will pass that check. It’s still an authentic Rolex, and the company will ensure these watches are built (and serviced) to last. In some cases, then, Rolex can’t let the watch leave the service facility without replacing parts to ensure everything is up to the standards. We will let customers know when external parts, such as a bracelet, are from a later period, for example.

RJB: The Rolex CPO program is available worldwide, but Gassan is the only dealer offering it in The Netherlands.

DB: Yes, that is correct. We share the same core values; it’s all about quality. We found the Rolex CPO strategy convincing from the start. Furthermore, we have the resources (an extensive Rolex service department) to do it best. Rolex is the forerunner when it comes to brands offering certified pre-owned watches, and we’re happy to be part of it.

RJB: Thanks for your time and answers!

After the interview, David Bijlsma gave me a tour of the House of Gassan building. What surprised me was the size of the in-store Rolex boutique and the Rolex service department above it. The latter was the same size as the former, with at least a dozen watchmakers exclusively working on Rolex watches.

A new customer for pre-owned Rolex at Gassan

When Rolex announced this CPO program for its authorized dealers, I was a bit pessimistic. Especially when looking at the prices, I wondered why I should buy a pre-owned Rolex from a CPO partner rather than a private seller or a dealer of pre-owned watches. Bijlsma clarified that there’s another type of buyer — i.e., those who wouldn’t even consider buying a pre-owned watch from Rolex or any brand.

As is often the case, my perspective was that of someone who feels comfortable buying pre-owned watches from unknown people or dealers. There’s an entire group of customers out there who wouldn’t even consider a pre-owned watch for various reasons. However, if their trusted authorized dealer can offer the watches in a comfortable environment along with an official Rolex certification, it might change their perspective.