Title: Delta is Launching Flights Between Salt Lake City and Seoul
Source: Atxjetsetter.com
URL: https://atxjetsetter.com/post/delta-is-launching-flights-between-salt-lake-city-and-seoul/
--------------------------------------------------

It’s been a crazy weekend and I know I’m late to the party but, Delta Air Lines announced this week that they will be launching flights between Salt Lake City and Seoul Incheon Airport (ICN).

This flight will mark the first transpacific service from Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) in over ten years. The airline previously operated flights between Salt Lake City and Tokyo’s Narita Airport (NRT) but these flights were eliminated in 2011.

The new route will launch on June 12th, 2025 and featuring daily, year round, flights using Airbus A350-900 aircraft. The flights are blocked at 13 hours and 15 minutes eastbound and 12 hours and 40 minutes westbound. They will operate on the following schedule:

Salt Lake City (SLC) to Seoul (ICN)

DL 173 Departs: 11:05a Arrives: 3:20p (+1)

Seoul (ICN) to Salt Lake City (SLC)

DL 172 Departs: 7:20p Arrives: 4:15p

These flights are currently on sale at Delta.com but be prepared to pay a pretty penny if you want to hop aboard. Roundtrip tickets in economy almost $3,000 with Delta One clocking in at more than $14,000.

In announcing the new route, Joe Esposito, Delta’s Senior Vice President of Network Planning, had this to say about the new route:

“The launch of Salt Lake City to Seoul service offers customers convenient access to Delta’s growing global network and ensures that virtually all U.S. demand is connected to Seoul via nonstop or one-stop service. As Salt Lake City continues to grow as a vital Delta hub, our strong joint venture with Korean Air allows us to offer unmatched connectivity between the U.S. and Asia, leveraging strong hubs on both sides.”

Salt Lake City Continues to Grow for Delta

The launch of Seoul service is the latestaddition for Delta in Salt Lake City. The airport is one of Delta’s fastest growing hubs with roughly 250 daily flights to more than 90 destinations. While the airline primarily utilizes Salt Lake City as a domestic hub, new service to Seoul will compliment the carrier’s existing transatlantic routes to Amsterdam (AMS), London (LHR), and Paris (CDG). This probices even more options for Delta travelers in the Mountain West.

The route is the latest addition since Delta opened its gorgeous new hub facility back in 2020. The airline currently has more than 50 gates at Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC) with further expansion on the horizon as the airport continues to build out Concourse B (Concourse A was finished in October 2023).

Hopefully, with the airline’s continued commitment to growth in Salt Lake CIty, we see additional international routes launched as more gates come online. Also, selfishly, I hope Delta continues to prioritize these types of adds as I want to see direct flights between my home airport of Austin and Seoul as they continue to add routes there.

Summary

Delta Air Lines is launching flights between Salt Lake City and Seoul. The new route will be the carrier’s first transpacific route from its Mountain West hub since it cancelled flights to Tokyo-Narita in 2011. The route will operate as year round, daily service on the carrier’s flagship A350 aircraft.

(Image courtesy Delta Air Lines)