Title: Alaska Airlines New Seattle to Rome Flights Launch Today
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/alaska-airlines-new-seattle-to-rome-flights-launch-today/
--------------------------------------------------

Launching our first flight to Europe is a significant step in executing our long–term growth strategy. Service to Rome expands how we connect our guests to the world, strengthens Seattle’s role as a global gateway and is made possible by our people who deliver safety, care and performance with every flight. Andiamo!”

The new Rome route also supports Alaska Airlines’ expanding global cargo operations. Starting today, the airline will become the first US passenger carrier to offer daily nonstop cargo service between Seattle and Rome. This will strengthen trade ties between the Pacific Northwest and Italy while growing its cargo network to 109 destinations worldwide.

The addition of Rome also improves connectivity between Hawaii and Europe by allowing travelers to reach the continent with a single stop in Seattle. This creates new opportunities for Hawaii-based passengers while opening an additional European gateway for visitors heading to the islands.

The new route will also showcase Alaska’s new international Business Class Suites, which are part of the airline’s broader expansion into long-haul markets. Designed for long-haul comfort, the Suites experience emphasizes personalized service and premium amenities. Passengers are welcomed onboard with attentive service, followed by multi-course dining options that include unique touches such as a customizable Salt & Straw dessert cart and chef-curated meals served before arrival. Additional features include amenity kits with Salt & Stone products and bedding by Filson. The Suites product is already in service on flights between Seattle Tacoma International Airport (SEA) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) and will expand to London Heathrow Airport (LHR) when that route launches on May 21st. It is also expected to debut on flights to Tokyo Narita Airport (NRT) later this year as Alaska continues to build out its international network.

Anthony’s Take: It’s exciting to see Alaska begin to fly to Europe. The addition of Rome strengthens Alaska’s commitment to expanding its global network from Seattle.

(Image Credits: Alaska Airlines.)