Title: Stray Kids' Bang Chan Attends His First Fendi Show as Ambassador Wearing Cream 'Fit
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/stray-kids-bang-chan-fendi-fw25-show
--------------------------------------------------

Stray Kids' Bang Chan Attends His First Fendi Show as Ambassador Wearing Cream 'Fit 

Stray Kids member Bang Chan has officially completed his first task as a newly minted Fendi ambassador by attending the brand's fall-winter 2025 coed show in Milan Fashion Week, which celebrated the house's 100th anniversary.

On Feb. 26, 2025, Bang Chan stole the show, arriving at Fendi's iconic HQ in Milan's Via Solari 35 rocking an all-cream 'fit with an off-the-shoulder light knit worn over a sandy camel color tank top with white trims. He rounded off the look with long crepe pants and white sneakers. Aside from the peek of the tank, the only other element breaking up his monochrome look was his black Fendi bag, which he carried like a clutch.

Daniele Venturelli/Getty ImagesAfter making his MFW debut with the brand during the spring-summer 2025 season, Bang Chan was announced as a Fendi ambassador on Jan. 16, 2025. Even before landing on Italian soil, the star was already in a Fendi mood. On Feb. 25, Bang Chan was spotted departing from Incheon Airport wearing a matching denim jacket and pants from the brand, which he paired with a white tee and white platform sneakers. As far as accessories go, he rocked a black baguette messenger bag with a cute WolfChan Skzoo pendant attached to it and long silver earrings.

Courtesy of FendiAs soon as he landed in Milan, Bang Chan took to his Instagram stories to pose with his invite and a bouquet in anticipation of the show, still wearing his airport outfit.

Courtesy of Stray Kids' Bang Chan via InstagramCourtesy of Stray Kids' Bang Chan via InstagramThe timing for Bang Chan to attend Fendi's momentous fall fashion show certainly does feel like a perfectly planned miracle, as it fits within a small gap between Stray Kids' <dominATE> world tour stops. The octet played two stops in Hong Kong in January, followed by three SKZ 5'CLOCK fan meeting stops in South Korea earlier this month. Before they resume their tour in Latin America in March, there's room for some more Stray Kids fashion month moments — and we will be keeping our eyes peeled.