Title: World's first green fuel levy to add almost $32 to airfares
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/international/business/worlds-first-green-fuel-levy-to-add-almost-32-to-airfares/articleshow/125231929.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Starting next year, air travelers in Singapore will encounter a new green fuel levy intended to enhance environmental responsibility in air travel. This fee, which will fluctuate based on the class of service and flight path, aims to fund investments in sustainable aviation fuel that can help mitigate the aviation industry's carbon footprint.

Air passengers departing Singapore will pay a green fuel levy of as much as S$41.60 ($31.95) from next year as the city-state locks in a key step in its effort to cut the aviation industry's emissions. Travellers flying in economy and premium economy, as well as those on short-haul routes, will be charged far less.

Those customers will pay an additional S$1 for trips to Southeast Asia, and S$10.40 for flights to the Americas, the civil aviation authority of Singapore said Monday. Business and first class travelers will pay four times more, it said.

The sustainable aviation fuel levy will be applied on tickets sold from April 1 for flights departing Singapore from October 1. Passengers transiting through the city-state won't need to pay the fee. Cargo flights will also incur a duty, which will be charged on a per-kilogram basis. Singapore is the first country in the world to tax passengers, and the levy is especially significant given its role as a global aviation hub. Its Changi Airport is poised for a record year, with this year's passenger numbers on track to exceed the previous all-time high of 68.3 million hit in 2019.

The funds collected from passengers will go to the centralised purchase of sustainable aviation fuel-typically made from waste oils or agricultural feedstock-as Singapore looks to achieve a SAF adoption rate of 3% to 5% by 2030. The global aviation sector makes up a relatively small portion of global greenhouse gas emissions-just 1.2% last year, according to the European Commission.

(Join our ETNRI WhatsApp channel for all the latest updates)

But surging demand for travel, coupled with the higher cost of sustainable fuels and their limited availability, are among key hurdles for the industry's efforts to decarbonise.

Live Events

MORE STORIES FOR YOU✕

Singapore to impose world’s first green fuel levy; passengers flying out to pay up to Rs 3,690

Voluntary SAF progs by airlines will provide value proposition for cos in reducing carbon footprints: Airbus official

« Back to recommendation stories

NULL

Close this recommenationNever show recommendations again

SUBMIT

While SAF production doubled last year, it accounted for only 0.3% of global jet fuel volumes, according to the International Air Transport Association.

Singapore's announcement coincides with the COP30 meeting in Brazil, where negotiators from nearly 200 countries are set to thrash out technical details on the world's efforts to mitigate climate change. While the duties may be a surprise to some travelers, they're cheaper than initially feared. The government had previously estimated them at between S$3 and S$16, but a decline in SAF costs has prompted a smaller levy.

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News, and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

How new securities law changes the definition of depositories

To cut or not to cut: What happens to Air India free-meals as losses swell

Different eras, but current rupee slide has elements of 1991 crisis

Melting mountains: Can India defuse 189 looming flood risks in Himalayas?

Wafers to war: Vinay Dube on how Iran crisis is hitting Akasa

India's new GDP yardstick: What changed, what did not, and what every investor should now read differently

1

2

3