Title: SAS Adds New Flight Between Copenhagen and Seoul
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/sas-adds-new-flight-between-copenhagen-and-seoul/
--------------------------------------------------

1.4K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

SAS announced today that it’s adding nonstop service between Copenhagen Airport (CPH) and Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN). The flights will run 3x to 4x throughout the year and begin on September 12th.

This is the first time that Denmark and South Korea have been connected with nonstop flights. SAS will use an Airbus A350-900 with 40 Business Class, 32 SAS Plus, and 228 SAS Go (Economy Class) seats. The route will be a nice addition for passengers and a good cargo route for SAS. Seoul Incheon International Airport (SAS) is one of the world’s busiest hubs for international freight and it handled over 2.76 million tons in 2023.

With SAS joining SkyTeam this past September, it will now be able to closely align with alliance partner, Korean Air. Onward connections will be seamless to open up even more Asian destinations with a single stop.

Anko van der Werff, President & CEO of SAS, said:

This new route highlights our commitment to meeting customer demand and enhancing connectivity between two dynamic regions. Seoul, renowned as a global center of culture, innovation, and business, is a strategic addition to our growing network. As a proud SkyTeam member, this route further strengthens the seamless connectivity we provide, linking Scandinavia to key destinations across the globe. We are excited to welcome passengers on board this landmark service.”

SAS has been making multiple route announcements since it joined SkyTeam in September. The Scandinavian carrier will return to Seattle 57 years after it flew its inaugural flight. With that addition, the airline will fly to 11 North American destinations. These include:

Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL)

Boston Logan International Airport (BOS)

Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR)

New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO)

Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ)

Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD)

Anthony’s Take: This route makes sense for SAS given its recent alliance change. We’ll see what other routes the airline adds as it continues to integrate.

(Image Credits: SAS.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.