Title: South Korean workers return home to cheers a week after U.S. immigration raid
Source: Japan Today
URL: https://japantoday.com/category/world/south-korean-workers-return-home-to-cheers-a-week-after-u.s.-immigration-raid
--------------------------------------------------

"The standard changes every timFe and constantly there has to be deal-making, not only on tariffs, but it'll also be the case with security issues," he said.

Give the US more money for their bases in South Korea.

Dont humiliate an Asian country with actions like this.

Probably 99% of those shackled would have self deported if given a chance.

But no....ya gotta shackle.....just gotta  shackle.....shows how tough the US is.

Actually ....USA looking like a bully who pooped his pants and everyone laughing behind his back

Probably 99% of those shackled would have self deported if given a chance.

In the case of the Koreans they and their government arranged a voluntary return so there is no deportation on anyone's record and thus no restriction on them traveling to the US again. They were in fact offered to be allowed to stay but only one member took that offer.  The rest said heck no and came home to Korea.

Dont humiliate an Asian country with actions like this.

Don't be sneaky, particularly when you are working in a host country.

Probably 99% of those shackled would have self deported if given a chance.

No more chances, you might self-deport because you got caught, if you didn't, you probably wouldn't, so....

But no....ya gotta shackle.....just gotta shackle.....shows how tough the US is.

Yes, a warning. Don't break our laws and you won't get shackled

Actually ....USA looking like a bully who pooped his pants and everyone laughing behind his back

Like Mike Tyson once said, everyone has a plan and talks smack until they get punched in the face. Never start a fight if you are not willing to go the distance and go all the way.

Don't be sneaky, particularly when you are working in a host country.

They were legally in the country on B1 visas sponsored by their employers..

Yes, a warning. Don't break our laws and you won't get shackled

They didn't break any laws.  ICE screwed up in a big way. Now one of the biggest, highest profile and most prestigious foreign investment projects in the US is on hold indefinitely.  It is not the Koreans fault the US visa system is so screwed up and it not up to the Koreans to fix it.  If the US is sincere about bringing in large amounts of foreign direct investment there has to be a visa or visas that make this possible without fear of another big raid.  The Koreans were not trying to break American laws.

They didn't break any laws. ICE screwed up in a big way. Now one of the biggest, highest profile and most prestigious foreign investment projects in the US is on hold indefinitely. It is not the Koreans fault the US visa system is so screwed up and it not up to the Koreans to fix it. If the US is sincere about bringing in large amounts of foreign direct investment there has to be a visa or visas that make this possible without fear of another big raid. The Koreans were not trying to break American laws.

I get that it’s frustrating, but this isn’t America’s fault; it’s Korea’s all the way. The U.S. has laws, and every company, whether foreign or domestic, is expected to follow them. If you’re bringing in workers for one of the biggest investment projects in the country, you’d better make sure their visas are in order, period, and this admin is NOT playing around.'   That’s not optional — that’s the cost of doing business here.

Saying “they didn’t break any laws,” sorry, not cutting it. ICE doesn’t stage a major raid on a whim. There had to be problems big enough to trigger it. And honestly, if this project is as prestigious as people say, then the Korean side had the money, the lawyers, and the connections to do things the right way. They chose not to, so sorry, they absolutely broke the law.

At the end of the day, it’s not the job of the U.S. government to bend over backwards to clean up paperwork mistakes made by a foreign company. It’s the job of the company to respect the system they’re operating in. If Korea really wants to be taken seriously as a trusted partner in American investment, it needs to show it can follow the rules like everyone else. It's just that simple. I don't feel sorry for what happened to these people; it's their fault. Hopefully, they will remember this next time.

Seems the ICE agents want to pad their numbers due to arrest quotas imposed on them.  So they arrest first, ask questions later - after all, an arrest is still an arrest regardless how it's obtained or if it eventually leads to nothing

Meanwhile, these are not economically poor immigrants who want to stay in the US - these are professionals who just want to do their jobs, help the US set up its manufacturing plants, then go home to their countries and families as soon as they're done

They were in B-1 visas - that's why at the end of the day Trump offered to allow them to stay if they wanted

B-1 visas allow people to temporarily visit the US for business purposes. B-1 visa holders cannot work full-time jobs in the US and cannot be paid by a US company

However, certain business-related activities are allowed, including performing installations and services following a sale - "to install, service, or repair commercial or industrial equipment or machinery purchased from a company outside the United States or to train U.S. workers to perform such services"

For years, South Korean companies have struggled to obtain US work visas for the specialists they need in their high-tech plants, essential for the short-term stay of Korean professionals who are needed for the initial operation of factories and for training local staff when their companies expand to the US

This development jeopardizes or delays projects that want to set up manufacturing operations in the US and create US jobs.  They'll be more reluctant to expand to the US.  Not good