Title: Las Vegas Named The Best Formula 1 City, According To New Study
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kaitlynmcinnis/2024/11/21/las-vegas-named-the-best-formula-1-city-according-to-new-study/
--------------------------------------------------

If you’ve ever wondered which city would make the best destination to visit when Formula 1 is in town, a new study by the experts at Gambling Zone has broken down various data points to find out the objectively best cities to visit during Formula 1.

The study looked at the number of winners starting outside of pole position, the number of restaurants and hotels with a minimum four-star rating, the best tourist attractions in each city, and the review score of each city’s main airport in order to put together the top options around the world.

Here are the best cities to visit during Formula 1—whether you’re considering catching a race or you just want to experience the madness and magic in the city while the drivers are in town:

Las Vegas, USA

Las Vegas earned the top spot as the best location to visit during F1, with a composite score of 6.20 out of 10. The city boasts 100 percent of winners starting outside of pole position and ranked second for the shortest travel time from the airport to the city center. Las Vegas is also home to plenty of four-start dining options and accommodations, making it easy to find a comfortable spot to stay even during the frenzy that F1 can bring to a city.

Budapest, Hungary

The second spot goes to Budapest with an overall score of 5.90 out of 10. The capital of Hungary stood out for its temperate weather conditions and the percentage of winners starting outside of pole position.

Monte Carlo, Monaco

Monte Carlo earned third place with a composite score of 5.75 out of 10. The destination earned high marks for its short travel time from the city center to the race track, with just eight to ten minutes by car or by public transportation. It also boasted a high number of four-start hotels and restaurants with more than 70% of properties in the city sitting at four- to five-stars.

Singapore

The fourth spot went to Singapore which stood out for its incredible airport reviews. The Singapore Changi Airport boasts shorter wait times for security and baggage claims and an impressive 4.7 stars out of five for its Google review.

Melbourne, Australia

Melbourne, Australia rounded out the top five, tying with Singapore with a composite score of 5.70 out of 10. The city stood out for its temperate weather conditions and decent number of hotels and restaurants that rank at least four stars.