Title: 30 Passengers Injured As Uruguay-Bound Air Europa Flight Hit Severe Turbulence
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/30-passengers-injured-as-uruguay-bound-air-europa-flight-hit-severe-turbulence/
--------------------------------------------------

1.1K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

At least 30 passengers are reportedly injured after Air Europa flight UX45 between Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport (MAD) and Montevideo’s Carrasco/General Cesáreo L. Berisso International Airport (MVD) hit severe turbulence this morning. The flight diverted to Rio Grande do Norte/São Gonçalo do Amarante-Governador Aluízio Alves International Airport (NAT) where emergency personnel met the flight.

While 30 passengers were injured, only six were serious enough to need to be transported to a local hospital. One passenger (as seen in the video above) had to be pulled out of an overhead bin.

This incident comes a few months after Singapore Airlines flight SQ321 from London Heathrow Airport (LHR) to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) hit severe turbulence en route and was forced to divert to Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK). The turbulence was so intense that one passenger died (of a heart attack) and as many as 71 others were injured. Now, Singapore is looking to offer compensation to these passengers in the form of at least $10,000.

Anthony’s Take: Keep your seatbelt buckled anytime that you are seated. Turbulence can hit unexpectedly and if you’re not wearing a seatbelt you can and will get injured.

(Featured Image Credit: @aviationbrk via X.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.