Title: Paris Baguette Singapore outlets are now officially halal-certified
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/dining/paris-baguette-singapore-halal-578466
--------------------------------------------------

Paris Baguette outlets in Singapore are now officially MUIS halal-certified, announced the South Korean bakery-cafe chain on Friday (Feb 13). The news comes about five years after Paris Baguette adopted a "no pork, no lard" policy in its outlets here.

A check by CNA Lifestyle on MUIS' halal directory on Friday shows that every Paris Baguette store in Singapore is reflected as halal-certified.

With this, Muslim customers in Singapore can now indulge in Paris Baguette's iconic treats, including its Best Ever Garlic Bread, Fresh Yogurt Cream Cakes and meat sandwiches.

To mark this milestone, Paris Baguette will also be introducing the new K-Lava Tteokbokki Pastry Tart on Feb 19. The item features smoky cheese, white cheddar, chewy rice cake, Gochujang mayo and buttery pastry crumble.

In a statement, Hana Lee, CEO of Paris Baguette for Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Africa, said: “We’re proud to launch our halal-certified offerings in Singapore, a meaningful milestone for Paris Baguette.

“Singapore is a vibrant multicultural society and going halal underscores our brand’s core commitment to inclusivity and connection within our communities. This allows even more people – families, friends and communities – to come together and enjoy the same quality, taste, and joy that Paris Baguette is known for. We’re truly excited to share this moment with everyone who has supported us."

Launched in South Korea in 1988, Paris Baguette has since grown into a global powerhouse with more than 4,000 outlets worldwide. The chain made its Singapore debut in 2012 at Wisma Atria and has expanded to over 20 locations across the island, including VivoCity and Jewel Changi Airport.

Paris Baguette also revealed during Friday's announcement that it will continue expanding its halal-certified footprint across Southeast Asia and plans to explore new opportunities in the Middle East.