Title: Blackpink star Jisoo filmed new music video in Singapore’s Rainforest Wild Asia and Singapore Zoo
Source: The Straits Times
URL: https://www.straitstimes.com/life/entertainment/blackpink-star-jisoo-filmed-new-music-video-in-singapores-rainforest-wild-asia
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE – South Korean singer and actress Jisoo from K-pop girl group Blackpink shot the music video for her new song Your Love in Singapore’s Mandai Wildlife Reserve, as part of a collaboration with the Singapore Tourism Board (STB).

The two-minute 54-second clip, released on Aug 12, features her singing amid a lush tropical rainforest, as well as the man-made cave system in Rainforest Wild Asia, which opened in March.

She is also seen in Cavern Restaurant, a cavernous 150-seat air-conditioned space and one of the eateries within the attraction, as well as the Singapore Zoo.

Also making an appearance in the clip are langurs, one of the animals that inhabit Rainforest Wild Asia.

Your Love is a single from Jisoo’s debut solo EP Amortage, which was released on Feb 14. In March, the 30-year-old was in Singapore for an appearance at Amortage at Far East Malls, a pop-up concept store celebrating the album release.

Jisoo will be back in town with her fellow Blackpink bandmates to perform at the National Stadium on Nov 29 and 30, as part of their highly anticipated Deadline world tour.

The music video is also a collaboration with Jisoo’s agency Blissoo and local dance talent agency Jam Republic, which oversaw the overall operations and logistics during filming.

Ms Serene Tan, STB’s director, North Asia, says in a statement: “Through this partnership, we hope to showcase Singapore’s unique landscapes and attractions, such as the lush greenery and immersive wildlife experiences at the Mandai Wildlife Reserve, our key partner in this project.

“Jisoo’s emotive performance brings to life the beauty of Singapore’s nature, and we hope her global influence will inspire more visitors and K-pop fans to discover and enjoy the memorable experiences our destination has to offer.”

Ms Jean Choi, chief sales and marketing officer at Mandai Wildlife Group, adds: “It’s a creative way to showcase the Mandai Wildlife Reserve and reveal a side of Singapore many may not expect.

“The precinct offers visually striking, memorable experiences that will resonate with Korean travellers, who value curated, Instagrammable spots with emotional storytelling.”

Rainforest Wild Asia will be hosting the Your Love Meets The Wild campaign, an immersive rainforest adventure that includes a special trail featuring locations from the music video, such as the cavern chambers inspired by real caves. The campaign will run from Aug 13 to Oct 5.

Jisoo is the latest pop star to film a music video in Singapore in partnership with STB in 2025.

In May, K-pop boy band BTS member Jin released the shot-in-Singapore music video for his single Don’t Say You Love Me. It features local spots such as National Gallery Singapore, Gardens by the Bay, Singapore Flyer and Goldhill Plaza.