Title: Stray Kids' Bang Chan Has Found the Perfect Elevated Carryall Bag — See Photos
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/stray-kids-bang-chan-elevated-carryall-bag-fendi-see-photos
--------------------------------------------------

Stray Kids' Bang Chan Has Found the Perfect Elevated Carryall Bag — See PhotosThe star might be en route to Fendi's spring-summer 2025 show, but he's giving us fall style inspo.By Sara DelgadoSeptember 23, 2025Courtesy of FENDIAnother day, another dose of airport style inspo from Stray Kids' Bang Chan. Just days after giving the Canadian tuxedo his stamp of approval en route to Macau, the Australian star is at the airport again, this time giving us the perfect bag inspiration for fall.

On September 22, 2025, Bang Chan was photographed leaving for Milan from Incheon International Airport in South Korea, wearing a complete look by Fendi. ICYMI, Bang Chan was officially named a brand ambassador in January 2025 after attending the brand's spring-summer 2025 menswear show as part of Milan Fashion Week. He was last seen at the fall-winter 2025 show.

Unlike his look from the week before, which thrived on its boyish charm with the addition of a backpack, cap, and sneakers, Bang Chan opted for a casual yet elevated take with his latest airport appearance.

Courtesy of FENDIThe Stray Kids leader posed for photographers before his departure, rocking another white jersey tank, this one embellished with a white leather Fendi Roma label instead of a silver monochrome motif, with a beige gabardine jacket layered on top.

Courtesy of FENDIHe also added a pair of black wool trousers and matching nappa leather Chelsea boots, creating the perfect tri-chromatic fall palette. Bang Chan complemented his ashy platinum blond 'do with his sterling silver jewelry pieces, adding a necklace, bracelet, and his trademark dangly earrings.

Courtesy of FENDIWhile the look was already a 10, he rounded it off with the pièce de résistance: the perfect carryall elevated bag for travel and beyond. The star carried a black Fendi Flux Maxi Messenger bag and added a touch of fun with a keychain charm from the brand. Back in August, the members of Stray Kids shared their thoughts on the keychain charm trend while speaking to Teen Vogue, and while Bang Chan then proclaimed that he'd “stick to my own Wolf Chan,” it seems like there's also room for Fendi in his bag straps and belt loops.

While Bang Chan's bag, which is part of Fendi's fall-winter 2025 collection, retails for almost $6,000, making it a hefty splurge for most of us, it still serves as the perfect inspo if you are looking to graduate from backpacks and are in the market for a bag that you can take pretty much anywhere — from class to work and beyond. Think big, slouchy, and versatile!

Inside the Unapologetic World of Fluevog Collectors

The 20 Best Denim Skirts to Go With 2026's Hottest Fashion Trends

Charlie Beads Founder Charlie Hourston Wasn’t Sure About Bloomers Either

The 13 Best Teen Makeup Brands, Picked by Teens Themselves