Title: Korean Air Passenger Tried To Open Emergency Exit During Flight. Again.
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2024/11/08/korean-air-passenger-tried-to-open-emergency-exit-during-flight-again/
--------------------------------------------------

Korean Air has not had a good year when it comes to passengers trying to open the emergency exit door in mid-flight.

In November 2023, a Korean Air passenger tried to open the plane’s exit door while in mid-flight from JFK to Incheon International Airport. She was reportedly later found to be on meth.

In June, 2024, 2 U.S. Army soldiers on a Korean Air flight helped restrain a man who tried to open the exit doors mid-flight.

And although not Korean Air, after a passenger on a Asiana flight successfully opened the door of their plane, mid-flight (here’s how they did it). Following that incident, Asiana stopped selling seats in the exit row, as did several other airlines, including a subsidiary of, you guess it, Korean Air.

So what happened now? Another Korean Air passenger tried to open the emergency exit in the middle of the flight.

Here’s what we know so far:

The event happened on flight KE658, going from Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) to Incheon International Airport (ICN) with 238 passengers.

About an hour into the flight, a passenger reportedly moved from his assigned seat and sat in a crew-only seat, close to the emergency exit, without permission. When the flight crew saw what he had done, they asked the passenger to return to his assigned seat. He refused and approached the emergency door, all while shouting and threatening the crew.

As per the captain’s instructions, the crew notified the passenger several times that he was in violation of the Aviation Security Act. They then worked in tandem to overpower and restrain the passenger, and moved him to an area of the plane, away from the other passengers, so they could calm him down.

A video from @whojacksonlee was posted just less than 24 hours ago. His caption stated that the event had happened an hour into the flight.

Here’s the video; heads up that it contains adult language and is NSFW.

@whojacksonlee The flight just took off an hour ago…… #fyp #foryoupagе #foru #bruh #koreanair ♬ oh my god bruh oh hell na man

You can see multiple crew members (looks like 4 or 5) working together to subdue and restrain the man, as well as one flight attendant videotaping the event on a tablet (easy to forward on to the authorities, as for evidence).

The plane safely arrived at Incheon International Airport at 4:46am.

Right after they landed, the passenger was handed over to the Incheon International Airport Police Force, who are investigating the matter.

An official of Korean Air said, “If illegal activities that hinder safety occur during the operation of the aircraft, we will take strong measures.”