Title: Blackpink's Lisa seen at Changi Airport days before Taylor Swift's concert
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/entertainment/blackpink-lisa-seen-singapore-386036
--------------------------------------------------

Advertisement

Entertainment

Blackpink's Lisa seen at Changi Airport days before Taylor Swift's concert

Several social media accounts posted videos of Lisa interacting with fans at Changi Airport.

New: You can now listen to articles.

This audio is generated by an AI tool.

01 Mar 2024 04:23PM (Updated: 01 Mar 2024 04:29PM)

Add CNA as a trusted source to help Google better understand and surface our content in search results.

Read a summary of this article on FAST.

Get bite-sized news via a new

cards interface. Give it a try.

Click here to return to FAST Tap here to return to FAST

FAST

Is Blackpink's Lisa in our area? On Thursday (Feb 29), several social media accounts posted videos of the Thai singer-rapper at Changi Airport – prompting speculation that the Lalisa singer could be in town to catch Taylor Swift's concert.

An X user by the handle @aripinkcrumbs posted a series of videos and photos showing Lisa interacting with fans at the airport. The 26-year-old K-pop idol even accepted gifts including a yellow Care Bear toy.

According to fans who were present at the airport, Lisa quickly made her way into a van upon landing. It is unknown why Lisa is in Singapore, although some fans are speculating that she might be here to catch one of Taylor Swift's six shows here. Others claim that she might be in town for an event by a luxury brand.

Lisa recently established her own agency Lloud, following the end of her contract with YG Entertainment. Soon, she will also be seen in the third season of HBO's hit series The White Lotus.

Source: CNA/hq

Newsletter

Recommended Read

Subscribe to CNA's Recommended Read

A single handpicked story that we think you shouldn't miss. Just one a day.

Advertisement

RECOMMENDED

Content is loading...

Advertisement

Get bite-sized news via a new

cards interface. Give it a try.

Click here to return to FAST Tap here to return to FAST

FAST