Title: Passport-less immigration clearance trials at Changi Airport to start from Aug 5
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/passport-less-immigration-clearance-trials-changi-airport-start-aug-5-eventual-roll-out-all-air-sea-checkpoints-4514801
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Travellers at Changi Airport can soon clear immigration without presenting their passports.

From Aug 5, Singapore residents will be able to get through selected automated lanes at Terminal 3 simply by using their facial and iris biometrics, the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) said on Wednesday (Jul 31).

It is part of a trial for the new passport-less clearance system, which will be progressively rolled out across all terminals in Changi Airport by the end of September, and at Marina Bay Cruise Centre in December.

Such a clearance process reduces the time taken by travellers to clear immigration by 40 per cent, the agency said in a press release.

The initiative is part of ICA’s plan to digitalise border clearance, in order to enhance each traveller’s experience and strengthen border security, it said.

ICA added that the QR code clearance system at Singapore’s land checkpoints with Malaysia will also be extended to motorcyclists by next month.

The system had been introduced for cars on Mar 19 this year, before being extended to bus drivers on Apr 15.

NO NEED TO PRESENT PASSPORTS

Under the ICA’s New Clearance Concept, there are two types of passport-less immigration clearance to make the process faster and more hassle-free.

The first does away with the need for any tokens of identification at all.

Singapore residents will be able to clear immigration at the country’s air and sea checkpoints without their passports at both arrival and departure, while the same applies to foreign travellers only at departure.

All travellers will be able to use the automated lanes for clearance. However, this does not include children under six years old, as the physical features and biometrics of this group are still developing and may not provide a reliable means of authentication.

The second type of clearance is with the QR code system, which has so far been rolled out for cars at Singapore’s two land checkpoints in Woodlands and Tuas.

“Token-less clearance is possible at the air and sea checkpoints as ICA would know beforehand, the travellers who are coming through the checkpoints, from the advance manifests submitted by airline and ship operators,” the agency said.

“At the land checkpoints, such traveller information is not available beforehand.”

The QR code was hence introduced as a form of identification in lieu of the passport itself, to speed things up at the land checkpoints, said ICA.

QR CODE CLEARANCE FOR MOTORCYCLES

The agency has been progressively implementing the QR code clearance since March this year, following three months of trials.

“Today, over 70 per cent of car travellers and bus drivers use the QR code for immigration clearance,” said ICA.

It will be extended to motorcyclists and pillion riders on Aug 15, and cargo vehicle drivers and accompanying assistants by the end of that month.

In December, the QR code usage will be implemented for bus passengers and those passing through the checkpoint counters on foot.

“The initiative will save travellers at the land checkpoints about 30 per cent in time taken to clear immigration,” said ICA.

The agency reminded travellers that even though Singapore is implementing passport-less immigration clearance, they still need their passports for clearance in other countries.

“ICA may also occasionally require travellers to produce their passport for verification,” it added.

The agency’s officers will continue to be around to help those who require assistance with automated and passport-less immigration clearance, it said.

“ICA is always working to improve the immigration clearance experience and efficiency at our checkpoints,” said Assistant Commissioner Phua Chiew Hua, deputy director of the agency’s operations division.

“Singapore is first in the world to implement token-less clearance on a large scale.”