Title: No need to remove liquids and laptops: 16 airports with stress-free security screening
Source: CNA
URL: https://cnalifestyle.channelnewsasia.com/travel/airports-stress-free-security-screening-checks-392661
--------------------------------------------------

There are many perks of flying but security screening isn’t one of them. It's a real cortisol spike: The clattering of trays, the beeping of metal detectors, and the frantic disrobing while rummaging through your hand luggage.

Fortunately, part of this dreaded routine is about to change. Starting this week, Hong Kong Airport will allow passengers to keep liquids and electronics in their hand luggage during security screening.

This is monumental, considering that removing these items has been the norm since 2006. Liquids have been under strict scrutiny since a terrorist plot involving chemical explosives was thwarted that year. Because most scanners couldn't detect liquids with our electronics in the way, those laptops, tablets, and e-readers also had to be removed – until now.

HOW IT WORKS

Hong Kong is not the first airport to implement this change. Since 2015, airports worldwide have been replacing outdated scanning systems with advanced computerised tomography (CT) X-ray machines.

These CT scanners generate three-dimensional views, allowing security personnel to rotate images and inspect the contents of hand luggage from different angles. By screening more individuals within a shorter timespan, this technology allows lines to move more quickly, helping airports avoid delays and passengers experience less stressful journeys.

While implementation varies across airports, the scanners generally make our lives easier in three key ways:

Level 1: Passengers are no longer required to remove electronics or liquids from their bags. However, they must still be kept in containers of not more than 100ml each.

Level 2: Passengers are no longer required to remove both electronics and liquids from their bags. However, they must still be kept in containers of not more than 100ml each.

Level 3: Passengers are no longer required to remove electronics and liquids from their bags, and they can bring liquids in quantities exceeding 100 ml onboard.

Level 3 is a real game-changer for a couple of reasons. It not only eliminates the need to refill our bottles, especially before boarding a low-cost carrier, but it also spares us the hassle of transferring our toiletries into tiny containers and worrying about leakages due to air pressure. That's right – you won't have to skip a single step of your skincare routine, even at 35,000 feet.

If you're wondering whether you'll experience these conveniences on your next trip, we've got you covered.

Here are 17 airports around the world that have already deployed CT scanners in their international terminals.

1. CHANGI AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices from hand luggage, but liquid restrictions are still in place.

Location: Terminal 4

Timeline: CT scanners have already been in use since 2017. No word yet on whether these will be installed at other terminals.

2. HONG KONG INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

What: No longer required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: North and South departure halls in Terminal 1

Timeline: Smart security screening will be launched on Jul 2, 2024. Over the next two years, we can expect to see 50 new channels being rolled out in phases.

3. INCHEON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: Departures No 3 in Terminal 1

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in September 2022. By 2025, all departure and transfer areas are expected to be equipped with these channels.

4. JEJU INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: Not specified

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in June 2019.

5. HAMAD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (DOHA)

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from their luggage. It has also introduced a shoe scanner so passengers don’t have to remove their footwear.

Location: Transfers hall

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in June 2021.

6. MELBOURNE AIRPORT (TULLAMARINE AIRPORT)

What: Not required to remove electronic devices from hand luggage and put on the tray. Liquid, aerosol, and gel items, however, must be removed at Terminal 2 International.

Location: Terminals 1 to 4

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in October 2019, aligned with the government’s direction for all Australian airports to be equipped by the end of 2025.

7. PERTH AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: All terminals

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in September 2022.

8. CANBERRA AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage. However, aerosol items (eg, hair sprays, deodorants, insect repellents) must be removed.

Location: All terminals

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in July 2020.

9. AUCKLAND AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: All international terminals

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in May 2024.

10. CHRISTCHURCH AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: All international terminals

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in December 2023.

11. WELLINGTON AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: All international terminals

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in December 2023.

12. LONDON HEATHROW AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage. Additionally, passengers will soon be able to carry liquids of more than 100ml onboard.

Location: Terminals 2, 3 and 5

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in February 2024. By summer (June 2024), the airport aims to equip all terminals with these channels and allow passengers to carry liquids of more than 100ml in their hand luggage.

13. AMSTERDAM SCHIPHOL AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage. Metal bottles, however, have to be emptied and refilled only after passing through security.

Location: All departure and transfer filters

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in 2015.

14. MUNICH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT

What: Not required to remove electronic devices and liquids from hand luggage.

Location: Terminals 1 and 2

Timeline: Smart security screening was introduced in May 2021 and is scheduled for completion this autumn (September 2024).