Title: Singapore Airlines annouces a cabin retrofit for some of its Airbus A350 fleet
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2024/11/04/singapore-airlines-annouces-a-cabin-retrofit-for-some-of-its-airbus-a350/
--------------------------------------------------

It seems Singapore Airlines is seeking to improve its passenger experience with a S$1.1 Billion Airbus A350 cabin retrofit programme.

Singapore Airlines A350-900 at Changi Airport – Image, Economy Class and Beyond

The program will cover 41 Airbus A350-900 aircraft, which operate in the airline’s long-haul and ultra-long-range (ULR) missions.

There are a number of changes, the biggest will be a new First Class cabin in its seven A350-900ULR aircraft designed to set new industry benchmarks for travel on the world’s longest routes. Designed with increasingly discerning travellers in mind, these plush First Class seats promise to deliver an unparalleled in-flight experience.

Business Class customers can look forward to an improved travel experience with SIA’s upcoming Business Class seats, featuring innovative designs that will offer even greater levels of privacy, comfort, and convenience in all 41 aircraft (and seemingly, a door on the seat).

These A350-900 First Class and Business Class products are designed from the ground up, with a spacious layout and ergonomic elements that cater to every customer’s needs. These are the same seat designs that will feature on SIA’s upcoming Boeing 777-9 aircraft.

For those of you in the back of the aircraft, both Premium Economy Class and Economy Class cabins will also be refreshed to enhance the travel experience for customers.

Across all cabins, the next version of Singapore Airlines’ “KrisWorld” In-Flight Entertainment System will be deployed, offering greater personalisation and an extensive range of lifestyle options across all cabin classes. First Class and Business Class seats will also feature new in-flight entertainment screens.

In Quotes

Mr Goh Choon Phong, Chief Executive Officer, of Singapore Airlines, said:

“Over the past six years, we have extensively engaged customers and stakeholders in the design of our next-generation long-haul cabin products, anticipating their evolving preferences and expectations down to the finest detail.

“The new First Class and Business Class seat designs will incorporate thoughtful elements that push the boundaries of comfort, luxury, and modernity, allowing our customers to relax or work effortlessly on board. Premium Economy Class and Economy Class customers can also look forward to refreshed cabin interiors that enhance their travel experience.

“The S$1.1 billion investment in retrofitting our 41 A350 aircraft reaffirms Singapore Airlines’ unwavering commitment to delivering an exceptional travel experience. The introduction of these next-generation seats and KrisWorld system, together with the world-renowned warm and attentive service of our cabin crew, will set new standards in innovation, customer experience, and service excellence.”

Deployment

The aircraft will be retrofitted by SIA Engineering Company in Singapore. The first retrofitted A350-900 long-haul aircraft is expected to enter service in the second quarter of 2026, while the first A350-900ULR variant will follow in the first quarter of 2027.

The entire programme is targeted for completion by the end of 2030.

Post-retrofit, the 34 A350-900 long-haul aircraft will be configured with 42 Business Class seats, 24 Premium Economy Class seats, and 192 Economy Class seats.

Meanwhile The seven A350-900ULR variants will feature four First Class seats, 70 Business Class seats, and 58 Premium Economy Class seats.

Much more to come

Like all cabin refits, inial announcements are rather hush-hush, with SIA unveiling the news – with their suppliers keeping quiet – for now.

The full details on the entire range of SIA’s forthcoming long-haul First Class, Business Class, Premium Economy Class, and Economy Class cabin products, as well as the latest version of the KrisWorld IFE system, will be revealed closer to the entry into service of SIA’s first Boeing 777-9 and retrofitted A350-900 aircraft.

Let’s see how they innovate in the cabin.

Product Preview Images – Singapore Airlines

Leader Image – Economy Class and Beyond

Welcome to Economy Class and Beyond. Your no-nonsense guide to network news, honest reviews, in-depth coverage, unique research, as well as the humour and madness I only know how to deliver.

Our Social Media pool has expanded. You can find us across most networks as @economybeyond on Twitter, Mastodon, BlueSky, Threads and Instagram!

Also, remember that we are part of the BoardingArea community, bringing you the latest frequent flyer news from around the world.