Title: Singapore Airlines Begins Major Lounge Investment Project at Changi Airport
Source: Atxjetsetter.com
URL: https://atxjetsetter.com/post/singapore-airlines-begins-major-lounge-investment-project-at-changi-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore Airlines is planning to redefine the lounge experience for its premium passengers at Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) Terminal 2. The carrier just kicked off a massive S$45 million investment project for its SilverKris and KrisFlyer Gold lounges. The two-year transformation kicked off today and will be completed in phases by mid-2027.

Singapore Lounges in Changi Airport Terminal 2 Will Get a Massive Overhaul

Singapore Airlines primarily operates out of its flagship facility located in Terminal 3 at Changi Airport. However, there isn’t enough space to accommodate the Singaporean flag carrier’s operation in T3 alone. The carrier also operates flights from Terminal 2 and, by all accounts, the current lounge situation isn’t great.

The upgraded lounges will see a 50% increase in space and seating, and draw inspiration from the airline’s flagship lounges in Terminal 3. Passengers can expect expanded food and beverage offerings, new rest zones, and upgraded amenities designed to enhance the pre-flight experience.

Yeoh Phee Teik, Senior Vice President Customer Experience at Singapore Airlines said this about the upcoming renovations:

“This significant investment underscores Singapore Airlines’ unwavering commitment to elevating the end-to-end travel experience for our customers. Building on the success of our Terminal 3 lounges, we are extending our signature hospitality and thoughtfully curated offerings to Terminal 2. This upgrade reaffirms our continued dedication to providing a seamless, world-class experience that meets the high expectations of our discerning customers.”

To minimize disruption, upgrades to the lounges will be carried out in phases. Construction of the new First Class SilverKris Lounge will began on April 15, 2025. It is expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 2025.

Construction of the new Business Class SilverKris Lounge is expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2025, and the new KrisFlyer Gold Lounge in the first half of 2026. Work on all Singapore Airlines lounges in Changi Airport Terminal 2 is expected to be completed by mid-2027.

What to Expect in the Expanded Lounges

The all-new First Class SilverKris Lounge will be a spacious area with increased seating capacity, higher ceilings, and large floor-to-ceiling windows. The renovated bar will offer a premium experience, including barista services in the morning and the live cooking stations will serve a wide range of popular Singaporean, Asian, and Western cuisine. The self-service buffet will also be expanded to mirror the offerings available at the SilverKris Lounge in Terminal 3.

The Business Class SilverKris Lounge will also receive an upgrade, expanding by roughly 30%. This will provide passengers with more space and comfort and include; a quiet rest area with recliners and a redesigned living room area with multiple seating options including wingback chairs, sofa seats, and productivity pods.

The expanded self-service buffet in the Business Class SilverKris lounge will feature Asian and Western cuisines. A new full-service bar will serve fresh barista-made coffee in the morning and signature cocktails in the evening.

Not to be left out, the KrisFlyer Gold Lounge will double its capacity with seating options. The lounge also get some new amenities that will include in-lounge restrooms and shower suites, allowing passengers to freshen up before their flight.

Summary

Singapore Airlines has just kicked off a massive lounge improvement project in Changi Airport’s Terminal 2. The project is expected to take two years and will be done in phases to minimize disruptions to lounge guests.

I haven’t had the chance to visit Singapore, only making my first trip to Asia earlier this year, but it looks like a fantastic destination and I look forward to visiting, and flying Singapore Airlines soon.

(Images courtesy Singapore Airlines)