Title: 6/26/24 National Security and Korean News and Commentary
Source: Smallwarsjournal.com
URL: https://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/62624-national-security-and-korean-news-and-commentary
--------------------------------------------------

Access National Security News HERE.

Access Korean News HERE.

National Security News Content:

1. Echoes of Freedom: Why Courageous Leaders Are the Guardians of Our Nation’s Soul

2. Opinion | Why American tech companies need to help build AI weaponry

3. Russia’s ambassador outlines plan to overthrow US-led world order

4. One year on, the Wagner revolt changed nothing

5. Lack of Leadership is Hindering the West in Asia

6. More Americans are ending up in Russian jails. Prospects for their release are unclear

7. Zelensky’s Formidable Task: Keeping the West and His Citizens On Board

8. It’s Time To Bring the Pentagon Budget Into the 21st Century

9. Grand Strategy, Innovation and Technology-Power: Free Trade with Free People

10. US Navy leaves possible two-week aircraft carrier gap in CENTCOM

11. War Between Israel and Iran Is Inevitable

12. WikiLeaks Founder Pleads Guilty and Is Sentenced for Conspiring to Obtain and Disclose Classified National Defense Information

13. The Assange Plea and Press Freedom

14. Taiwan reports Chinese ‘combat patrol’, Beijing vows to hunt independence ‘diehards’

15. Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, June 25, 2024

16. Israel–Hamas War (Iran) Update, June 25, 2024

17. US military takes another stab at aid delivery from floating Gaza pier

18. International court seeks arrest of Russian officials over attacks on Ukrainian power plants

19. DHS identifies over 400 migrants brought to the U.S. by an ISIS-affiliated smuggling network

20. Attacks against defense industrial base increasing, NSA chief war

21. America’s Asian Partners Are Not Worried Enough About Trump

22. The Power of Principles – What Norms Are Still Good For

23. ‘Axis of impunity’: Putin-Kim deal underlines new challenges to world order