Title: Only 10 Brands Shortlisted For Shilla’s New Liquor Store At Incheon Airport
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinrozario/2024/06/30/only-10-brands-shortlisted-for-shillas-new-liquor-store-at-incheon-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

South Korean travel retailer, The Shilla Duty Free, will inaugurate a liquor flagship store at Incheon International Airport on Monday (July 1) marking the sole store at the Korean Air hub specialized in the sale of alcoholic drinks.

The opening coincides with the duty-free retailer’s first anniversary at the airport which served 56.1 million passengers last year, and ranked seventh in the world for international traffic by Airports Council International. In Asia-Pacific, only Singapore Changi had more international passengers in 2023.

The flagship liquor unit is in the west wing of Incheon’s Terminal 2 and covers about 3,400 square feet. The footprint is larger than regular outlets to enable the company to showcase a very selective range of labels.

According to Shilla Duty Free—whose parent is Hotel Shilla (a Samsung Group affiliate)—the new store “features only top-selling alcohol brands.” They include Ardbeg, Ballantine’s, The Balvenie, Chivas Regal, Glenfiddich, Glenmorangie, Hennessy, Johnnie Walker, Royal Salute, SJF (Shui Jing Fang), and Wildmoor.

The latter blended whisky from William Grant & Sons will makes its debut in the Korean market exclusively with Shilla Duty Free. Meanwhile, LVMH-owned Glenmorangie and Hennessy, part of the French luxury conglomerate’s Moët Hennessy wine and spirits division, will offer tasting experiences of their signature products.

Shilla Duty Free will also launch a series of promotions to mark the T2 opening with some products being discounted by up to 30%. Other lures to tempt passengers will include gifts such as wine glasses, coasters, and travel bags, depending on how much they spend.

Focus on promotions

These store-wide promos will be supported by brand-specific initiatives. For example, The Balvenie is offering gifts focused on Korean traditional culture with its purchases, while owner, William Grant & Sons, will put customer names into a draw if they spend more than $1,000.

Winners will get dinner invitations to an August pop-up event for The Balvenie in Seongsu-dong, a revamped district in Seoul familiar today as a drinking and dining hub, and sometimes referred to as ‘The Brooklyn of Seoul.’

The Shilla Duty Free is also hosting a number of anniversary events for the full month of July to drum up interest and sales across its store network at the Seoul airport gateway where it has a total of 96,000 square feet of shopping space.

The intense focus on promotional events is because the Korean duty-free market, where Lotte Duty Free is Shilla’s main rival, is still trying to claw back lost sales post-pandemic. In Shilla Duty Free’s case, the division saw a 32% collapse in revenue last year to Korean won 2,933.6 billion ($2.12 billion), but notably, the airport business, as a share, became larger than downtown duty-free for the first time.

In Q1 2024, that share has increased further, while total revenue for the travel retailer improved by 37% year over year, and by 8% quarter over quarter. The airport business remained the growth driver, with sales rising by 57% compared with just 20% in the downtown market (both year over year).