Title: Burn: Korea trip is a 'full circle moment'
Source: Newcastleunited.com
URL: https://www.newcastleunited.com/en/news/burn-korea-trip-is-a-full-circle-moment
--------------------------------------------------

The Magpies defender was ten years old when the country co-hosted the 2002 World Cup, and could get the opportunity this week to play in two venues built for the tournament.

United take on Team K League at the Suwon World Cup Stadium on Wednesday before facing Tottenham Hotspur at the 66,704-capacity Seoul World Cup Stadium on Sunday.

Burn and his team-mates were welcomed by masses of supporters as they landed at Incheon Airport on Monday evening, following a successful visit to Singapore.

And the England international centre-back admitted: "Being a Newcastle fan myself, sometimes you think that it's only the city of Newcastle that supports the team, but coming here and seeing thousands of people in the airport and how excited they were to see us shows why we do come over here.

"Obviously it's good commercially for the club, but for the players and staff to feel the love that we had was very exciting.

"We're very, very happy to be here. We feel in a very lucky position - I think we probably wouldn't get to experience coming to South Korea if it wasn't for football.

"My first experience of football was the 2002 World Cup in South Korea and Japan, where we visited last year, so it feels like a bit of a full circle moment for me.

"I'm excited to play the game. It's going to be tough - a lot of the players will be in the middle of their season, so I'm expecting them to be very sharp compared to where we are in our pre-season. The heat will be a big factor as well, but I think it's good that we can play in the heat and get ourselves ready for the Premier League season."

Joining Burn and the rest of the squad in South Korea was new signing Seung-Soo Park, who joined the Magpies from K League 2 side Suwon Bluewings last week.

The 18-year-old winger, who was born in Seoul, trained with his new colleagues in Singapore and was an unused substitute against Arsenal at the weekend, but could feature on Wednesday evening.

"From the player's point of view, it's probably been an exciting but difficult first few weeks," said Burn. "He's been in England for a little bit and now travelling again, so it's been nice to spend time with him.

"He spoke at his first training session - he seemed thankful to be here and get to know people, and I think for us as a team it's about trying to make it as comfortable as possible for him and allowing him to develop."

Team K League is selected from the best players in South Korea's top flight, including Pohang Steelers pair Lee Tae-seok and Brazilian midfielder Oberdan, who finished top of a recent public vote.

Albania international Jasir Asani - who came up against Burn and England in the summer - is also set to play, and Burn added: "We are expecting a tough team, along with the conditions, and we will be have to be on top of our game.

"We were a lot better in the Arsenal game than the Celtic game and I think going into that week probably a little less fatigued helped as well. So it's just about us building. We're expecting a big support for the K League team but we've got a lot of Newcastle support here as well.

"Hopefully it's a game where we can get our forward players on the ball as much as possible. We signed Anthony Elanga, who from experience playing against him is very, very quick; Jacob Murphy scored a great goal against Arsenal; Anthony Gordon, Harvey Barnes, and Will Osula has done really well.

"With Alex (Isak) not being here, it's given him game time he may not have got as much of, but he played really well the other night so hopefully he can continue that."

But while Wednesday night's game - and the subsequent fixture against Spurs - are United's current focus, the main priority is the campaign ahead.

"We had a very good season last season," said Burn. "Champions League qualification and winning the cup was amazing, but we don't want to just sit on that. We want to build again.

"We've got that experience of Champions League this year from two years ago to learn from, so I think we'll be better prepared from that, and we want to keep moving forward. We're aiming for the top of the league - however soon or long that takes to happen, that's the plan.

"For me, I just want to keep playing well for Newcastle. I had a really good season last year. I want to keep on improving on that and hopefully international games will come from that - and maybe the World Cup."