Title: Song Joong Ki Returns To Korea, But His Companion Steals The Show At Incheon Airport
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/song-joong-ki-returns-korea-companion-nalla-attention-incheon-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

Actor Song Joong Ki confirmed his marriage earlier this year to British actress Katy Louise Saunders (also known as Kate Saunders).

The actress grew up between London and Italy, and Song Joong Ki reportedly flew Katy Saunders’ family to Seoul after they learned they were expecting.

Ahead of the birth of their son in June of this year, the couple returned to Saunders’ hometown of Rome, where they have reportedly spent much of their time after welcoming their son into the world.

A host of tvN’s Free Doctor, Ahn Jin Yong, revealed that he believes “Song Joong Ki has been living in Rome, Italy, ever since his wife gave birth.”

Recently, Song Joong Ki was spotted returning to Korea as he maneuvered his belongings through Incheon Airport.

He sweetly greeted fans while walking through the airport, and while netizens were certainly aware of the global star, as many commented on his unaging appearance and sweet personality, there was someone else present who stole the show… Song Joong Ki’s beloved dog, Nalla!

Nalla first appeared on the actor’s Instagram at the end of 2021, and Song Joong Ki revealed in a 2022 interview that getting Nalla was the “most significant change” in his life that year.

He admitted that the adorable Italian greyhound often captured the attention of passersby, causing some not to recognize him until minutes into their conversation.

When we go on a walk, Nalla steals all the attention. It’s all eyes on Nalla. People will notice Nalla first, ask questions about Nalla, and then recognize me way later.

— Song Joong Ki

It seems his statement was proven true when netizens rushed to praise Nalla, who was adorably clutched in Song Joong Ki’s arm as he walked through the airport.

A thread of the compiled photos of Song Joong Ki and Nalla at Incheon Airport posted on the popular Korean online community board TheQoo gained traction with hundreds of comments complimenting the adorable dog and asking the actor for more pictures of his furry friend.

“Song Joong Ki please post photos of your dog.”

“Greyhound…so cute.”

“Give us more dog pics!”

“Why is that dog so cute gahhh”

“I like Song Joong Ki, but I can only see the dog. I need a close-up shot of the dog please.”

“So cute.”

“Omg how can the dog be so round.”

Read more about Song Joong Ki’s sweet companion in the article below!