Title: Delta Air Lines Returns to Taipei For the First Time Since 2017 With New Seattle Flight
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/delta-air-lines-returns-to-taipei-for-the-first-time-since-2017-with-new-seattle-flight/
--------------------------------------------------

Delta Air Lines is bringing Taipei back to its route offerings with a new flight from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA). This is the first time Delta will be flying to Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport (TPE) since 2017 when it was served with flights from Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT).

Delta is celebrating its 90th anniversary in Seattle this December. Its history dates back to Northwest Airways (later Northwest Airlines) in 1933. Delta Air Lines began flights in June 1980, with service to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL), Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) and Portland International Airport (PDX). Delta now flies over 160 daily departures to 50 destinations worldwide from Seattle. The airport serves as Delta’s gateway to the Pacific with flights to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN), Shanghai Pudong International Airport (PVG), and

Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND).

The new flights to Taiwan Taoyuan International Airport (TPE) will launch on June 6th with an Airbus A330-900neo. It offers 29 Delta One Suites, 28 Delta Premium Select, 56 Delta Comfort+, and 168 Main Cabin seats.

Joan Wang, Delta’s Managing Director of Global Sales – Seattle, said:

This route not only opens new doors to Taipei’s captivating skyline, vibrant night markets, and rich cultural heritage, but it also marks a significant stride in enhancing Seattle’s global connectivity. This strategic addition to Delta’s trans-Pacific portfolio is poised to make a profound impact on the Seattle market, fostering increased business and leisure travel opportunities for our discerning customers.”

Anthony’s Take: Delta used to have a vibrant offering from Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT). It’s good to see service to Asian cities coming back and Seattle offers a good hub for these flights.

(Image Credits: Delta Air Lines.)