Title: After 16 years, Singapore Airlines will exit Houston and end its unusual Texas-UK route
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/singapore-airlines-cuts-houston/
--------------------------------------------------

Houston, we have a problem.

And for Singapore Airlines, that's seemingly insufficient demand to make its unique fifth-freedom flights from Houston work. The Singaporean flag carrier announced Monday that it would cut its service from Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) to Manchester Airport (MAN) in England. This one-stop service has historically continued on from Manchester to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN).

Even without the Houston link, the carrier will continue serving Manchester with five-times-weekly flights to Singapore. However, the airline will pull out of Houston effective April 1, 2025.

When to go: These are the best times to buy an international flight

Singapore said in a press release that this move is being made "In line with its capacity adjustments," and it added that "Singapore Airlines regularly reviews our network and routes to align our capacity with demand."

The airline didn't share whether this cut was permanent, but it also didn't mention if, or when, the route might resume in the future.

Singapore Airlines has served Houston since March 2008, Cirium Diio schedules show. The airline originally flew from Houston to Moscow's Domodedovo Mikhail Lomonosov Airport (DME) before continuing to Singapore.

This service, operated as a fifth-freedom flight, allowed Singapore to carry local passengers between Houston and Moscow and passengers continuing onward from Houston to Singapore. The airline switched the Moscow stop for a stop in Manchester in October 2016, and aside from a pandemic suspension in the early 2020s, the route has been operating consistently since then.

Singapore is no stranger to fifth-freedom flights. While the airline operates the world's longest nonstop route from New York to Singapore, it also has a daily service from New York to Frankfurt that continues to Singapore. On the West Coast, Singapore flies from Los Angeles to Tokyo to Singapore.

It seems, however, that of the airline's three U.S. fifth-freedom flights, the carrier's Houston-to-Manchester route is the weakest link. Back in the day, connecting Houston with Moscow seemed to have made sense, given the oil industry's connection between the two cities. However, as Moscow's economy suffered, so did this route. That's when the airline decided to fly to Manchester instead, which at the time seemed a bit random for the Star Alliance carrier.

Value check: Are airline credit cards worth it anymore?

While the airline could tap into United Airlines' short-haul network from its Houston hub for additional connectivity, travelers flying to Singapore from points near Houston could just as easily connect in Los Angeles or San Francisco to get to Singapore — often with shorter total travel times than connecting in Houston and Manchester.

Of course, this cut also spells bad news for those who were looking for a unique way to redeem miles on one of the world's top airlines on a special flight from the U.S. to Europe.

Though Singapore is scaling back its U.S. network, the airline did have lots of exciting news to share for its routes across the world. This includes increased frequencies and upgauges to bigger planes across Europe, more flights to Johannesburg, and a few other interesting expansions announced Monday.

Note that Singapore didn't add any new routes or cut other existing ones except for the Houston-to-Manchester leg.

Related reading: