Title: From The Club To The Airport: NCT 127's Work Ethic Impresses Netizens
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/nct-127-club-fansign-busy-schedule/
--------------------------------------------------

NCT 127‘s recent schedule has left netizens impressed!

In early October, NCT 127 returned with “Fact Check,” their long-awaited fifth album. Since then, they have promoted the release, appearing on music shows and meeting fans.

On December 7, the group departed from Incheon Airport, heading to Thailand for a special meet and greet event organized by Shopee. NCT 127 arrived early for the around six-hour flight, around 8-9 am KST.

After landing, the group likely had only a little downtime before heading to the meet-and-greet location. The event was scheduled to begin at 7:40 PM ICT (9:40 PM KST) and went off without a hitch as the group greeted fans.

After the meet and greet event ended, at around 9 PM ICT (11 PM KST), NCT 127 went live on Weverse, chatting as a group in front of worldwide fans for about 30 minutes before signing off.

Usually, this is where a group’s night might have ended, especially after a long day of travel. However, several of NCT 127’s members were later spotted having the time of their lives at a local club!

Locals uploaded videos of the group’s members, especially Taeyong and Mark, having dance battles at the club, with the former even sharing a TikTok.

@tik_tyong

반짝반짝

♬ 오리지널 사운드 – TAEYONG LEE – TAEYONG LEE

It is unknown how long the group stayed at the club, which lists its closing hour as 2 AM ICT (4 AM KST). However, the group were up bright and early by 8 AM ICT (10 AM KST) when they were filmed at the airport departing to Indonesia for another event the same day.

Following the three-and-a-half-hour flight, the group were spotted arriving at the fan sign event around 6 PM WIB(8 PM KST).

Thankfully, the group seemingly will get a little rest before their next schedule; online video calls on December 9, KST, though Mark and Haechan will head to America for their first Jingle Ball date on December 10.

Fans and netizens were left impressed by how NCT 127 handled such a packed schedule and still had time to have some fun.