Title: World’s Second-Biggest Airport Retailer Makes South African Breakthrough
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinrozario/2025/05/22/worlds-second-biggest-airport-retailer-makes-south-african-breakthrough/
--------------------------------------------------

Global duty-free operator, Lagardère Travel Retail (LTR), has partnered with South African tourism company, Tourvest, to pursue travel retail opportunities across the African continent, starting with South Africa itself.

Paris-based LTR, which generated sales of$6.1 billion for its media-to-retail parent, Lagardere Group, last year, is looking to expand in Africa, where it already has a scattered presence in five west African countries (Benin, Gambia, Gabon, Mauritania and Senegal), and Tanzania in the east of the continent.

The strategic memorandum of understanding (MoU) it has signed with Tourvest will allow LTR to collaborate on retail, hospitality, and tourism development initiatives, initially in South Africa. Deputy president of South Africa Paul Mashatile was also present at the signing, adding some weight to the proceedings.

German rival Gebr. Heinemann already has an established joint-venture presence with Big Five Duty Free at South Africa’s most important air gateways of OR Tambo in Johannesburg, Cape Town International, and Durban’s King Shaka International. An all-women-owned investment consortium took a 28% stake in the retailer last October, but it is believed that Heinemann continues to retain its interest.

For LTR, there are multiple other opportunities in the country, and it will be going after travel retail, duty-free, and dining offerings in major airports and tourism hubs. CEO, Dag Rasmussen, said in a statement: “This collaboration is fully aligned with our ambition to grow in the South African market and more broadly across the region—a strategic priority for us and an area full of promise. It also reflects our DNA: forging strong partnerships with locally rooted players who understand and anticipate local expectations.”

MORE FOR YOU

South Africa is a springboard

The French company, the second biggest airport retailer in the world after Avolta, says the South African travel retail market is valued at over $100 million while the wider Africa and Middle East travel retail market “is worth in excess of $3.5 billion.” Generation Research puts the valuation significantly higher. It estimates African duty-free and travel retail sales in 2024 hit $841 million, with the Middle East raking in $6.54 billion.

Africa is a small, underserved, and difficult market for airport shopping, but last year it grew faster than all other regions at 7.6%. The MoU could deliver a powerful new player in the market thanks to some complementary skills adding up to more than the sum of their parts. Tourvest—with revenue exceeding Rand 20 billion ($1.1 billion) in FY24 (ending August 2024) and majority owned by the Guma Group—has a strong African operational presence, local market intelligence, and hospitality leadership. Lagardère Travel Retail also has some African experience, competence in delivering retail concepts, and a big international reach; some 5,000 stores in more than 50 countries.

Business tycoon Robert Gumede, chairman of Tourvest Group, commented: “We are optimistic as we embark on this strategic journey. While this partnership begins in South Africa, it reflects our mutual ambition to pursue opportunities across the continent. Together, we aim to set new benchmarks in travel retail.”

Currently, despite LTR being in six African markets, the retailer does not break out the revenue from the continent when announcing its quarterly results because it is small. This partnership, if successful, could change that, but it might take some time.

From South Africa to Singapore

On Monday this week, Lagardère Travel Retail also announced it had secured a long-term master concession at Singapore Cruise Centre (SCC) and the Tanah Merah ferry terminal close to Changi Airport, as luxury retailer DFS Group departs.

The duty-free and general merchandise contract covers all three of LTR’s business lines (duty-free, travel essentials, and dining) and starts in July, when LTR will begin a phased renovation that promises “to deliver a bespoke concept that resonates with the landlord’s vision.”

Jacqueline Tan, CEO of Singapore Cruise Centre, said: “We are excited to realize the terminals’ upgrade, making it more appealing to both leisure and business travelers.” SCC is a gateway to Indonesia’s Batam and Bintan islands as well as Desaru in Malaysia. The center is also a turnaround port for luxury and expedition cruise ships on world voyages.