Title: NewJeans' Hanni Stuns in Backless Crop Top at Gucci's Spring-Summer 2025 Show
Source: Teen Vogue
URL: https://www.teenvogue.com/story/newjeans-hanni-gucci-spring-summer-2025-show-look
--------------------------------------------------

NewJeans' Hanni Stuns in Backless Crop Top at Gucci's Spring-Summer 2025 ShowSummer is not over yet for the star.

Hanni of NewJeans returned to the front row at Milan Fashion Week for Gucci’s spring-summer 2025 collection. As an ambassador for both the fashion and beauty departments of the brand, Hanni was obviously going to deliver a buzz-worthy look.

We might all be getting into the fall spirit, but Hanni's look for the show was definitely on the summery side, which is fitting for the collection. The star wore a thin belt with baggy, light-wash jeans that sat low on her waist, exposing her midriff with a Y2K flair. To give her a bit of height, she rocked Sabato De Sarno's platform take on the classic Gucci Horsebit loafer in black, carrying a matching bag. The star of the show, however, was Hanni's top: a backless crop top made of solid frills.

Vittorio Zunino Celotto/Getty ImagesAs for beauty, she wore minimal but glowy makeup, skipping not to fill in her brows and completing the ethereal look with soft pink blush, blue iridescent eyeshadow, and glossy peachy lips. Her hair was styled long and straight for a super sleek finish. Previously, Hanni had debuted a dramatic blonde transformation to attend a Gucci show, but she stuck to her natural black color this time around.

Daniele Venturelli/Getty ImagesBefore arriving in Italy for the show, Hanni was spotted at Incheon Airport decked out in Gucci. And even though she was just commuting, her look was just as chic, though much more covered. She wore a fitted charcoal gray blazer over a white top with black relaxed-fit jeans. She completed the look with a pair of chunky heeled loafers that featured Gucci’s signature Horsebit.

As for accessories, she matched her Gucci Rosso red skinny belt to her crossbody bag, which was featured in the brand’s Cruise 2025 collection. She also wore a simple gold pendant necklace and glasses to frame her makeup. She opted for a simple look with peachy matte lipstick, a fully flushed pink blush, and a bit of eyeshadow and mascara.

Han Myung-GuWhether in the airport or the front rows, there’s no doubt that Hanni is a quintessential Gucci girl. But, of course, her influence in fashion goes way beyond just Milan. For the past couple of seasons, Hanni and her fellow NewJeans members Minji, Danielle, Haerin, and Hyein have served as ambassadors for Seoul Fashion Week.

Han Myung-GuThis past New York Fashion Week, Hanni also took over the Big Apple without even being there. Her UGG billboard was celebrated with a surprise pop-up for both NewJeans fans, or Bunnies, and fashion lovers to enjoy. Looks like Hanni’s got the best of both worlds, making her mark in music and fashion as well.