Title: Singapore Airlines signs for Neste Sustainable Air Fuels
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://economyclassandbeyond.boardingarea.com/2024/05/09/singapore-airlines-signs-for-neste-sustainable-air-fuels/
--------------------------------------------------

Singapore Airlines (SIA) Group has signed an agreement with Neste to purchase 1,000 tonnes of neat Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel as it seeks to reduce its footprint.

Singapore Airlines Boeing 787-10 – Image, Economy Class and Beyond

The agreement will cover SIA Group’s airlines – Singapore Airlines and Scoot. The Sustainable Air Fuel (SAF) is produced at Neste’s refinery in the country.

Neste will blend the SAF with conventional jet fuel according to the required safety specifications, and deliver the blended jet fuel to Changi Airport’s fuel hydrant system in two batches – once in the second quarter of 2024 and once in the fourth quarter of this year.

This milestone will also mark the first direct supply of Neste’s SAF to airlines at Changi Airport.

This follows the completion of the expansion of Neste’s Singapore refinery in May 2023. The refinery has the capacity to produce a million tonnes of SAF each year, making it the world’s largest SAF production facility.

Neste’s SAF, which is made from 100% renewable waste and residue raw materials, reduces greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% over the fuel’s life cycle. When blended with conventional jet fuel, it can used with current infrasturue and engines

In Quotes

Mr Alexander Kueper, Vice President Renewable Aviation, Neste, said:

“We are proud that Singapore Airlines and Scoot are our first customers benefiting from our integrated supply capabilities into Changi Airport. This supply of locally produced SAF to Changi Airport is a milestone in our journey of supporting the aviation industry and governments in the region to achieve their emissions reduction goals. Singapore is a leading aviation hub in the Asia-Pacific region and this delivery of SAF, as well as the recently announced national SAF target, will hopefully encourage the wider adoption of SAF across the broader Asia-Pacific region. We are looking forward to expanding our cooperation with Singapore Airlines as well as supplying visiting carriers at Changi Airport.”

Ms Lee Wen Fen, Chief Sustainability Officer, Singapore Airlines, said:

“This agreement with Neste is an important milestone in the SIA Group’s journey to have a minimum of 5% sustainable aviation fuel in our total fuel uplift by 2030. Close collaboration with our partners and stakeholders, both in Singapore and globally, plays a critical role in our long-term decarbonisation goals. A more sustainable aviation industry will ensure that future generations continue to benefit from the global connectivity, economic prosperity, and people links that air travel fosters.”

Steps forward for SIA.

I’ve lost track of how many times I’ve said “drops of SAF in a Kerosene ocean, with 1,000 tonnes being not a lot – even though it should go a long way when combined with standard jet fuel.

But it’s a start as the airline starts lifting SAF from its home base, within a supply chain it has ease of access to.

In the future, that’s going to be key, with other airlines no doubt weighing up how much SAF to buy at outstations, its needs and requirements across its networks.

But the issue with SAF will be simple – volume. And the feedstocks that make up SAF are limited at this time.