Title: Dubai International Airport Named Best in World For Food...
Source: Food & Wine
URL: https://www.foodandwine.com/top-international-airports-for-food-and-drink-2025-11686240
--------------------------------------------------

Between the staggeringly long baggage check and security lines, the frustrating searches for working outlets, and the too-cramped, backache-inducing seats, flying (devoid of the perks of business and first class, of course) can hardly be a joyful experience — at least until you get where you’re going.

What can ease the stress, however, is good food. And some fabulous airports have a profusion of it that transcends the reliably ubiquitous fast-food mainstays of days past.

The 2025 Global Tastemakers panel of food and travel experts has voted these airports from around the world as the best for eating and drinking, whether the ambiance is fancy or casual. These transit hubs champion a more positive, progressive vision of jet-setting, one infused with an inviting touch of old glamour. Getting stuck in transit at one of these for longer than you hoped might not be too upsetting. At least you don’t have to make do with an overpriced, lackluster sandwich wrapped in plastic for dinner.

01 of 10

Winner: Dubai International Airport (Dubai, UAE)

Flights swoop in and out of Dubai International Airport (DXB) at all hours of the day, so the atmosphere is perpetually and delightfully energetic. Restaurants here are from renowned names like Wolfgang Puck. His eponymous The Kitchen by Wolfgang Puck greets the weary in Terminal 1 with craveable chile-garlic chicken wings. Christophe Adam’s French pastries that fuse vanilla and pecan have the same uplifting effect at L’Éclair de Génie in Terminal 3. At Tranzeet, Terminal 3’s retro burger hangout, is ideal for conversation and milkshake-sipping in cozy booths. It may have less panache than some of the other offerings here, but guests are ensured to be happy until it’s time to leave.

02 of 10

Hong Kong International Airport (Hong Kong)

Waiting isn’t so bad at Hong Kong International Airport (HKG). There’s artwork to enjoy and copious restaurants to remain satisfied. Duddell’s, the offshoot of the Michelin-starred original in Hong Kong’s Central area, focuses on Cantonese comfort recipes like shredded chicken over rice, squid-topped soy sauce noodles, and even deftly packaged roast goose to wow friends at home with. Just make sure there is time to sip a Fallen cocktail (Michter’s bourbon, treacle, coconut, overripe banana, and mole bitters) at Intervals, the bar planted on the scenic Sky Bridge. On the arrivals side, Ho Hung Kee, another local joint that’s been going strong since 1946, provides an immediate pre-hotel culinary immersion with its venerated wontons bobbing in hot soup.

03 of 10

Haneda Airport (Tokyo, Japan)

In 2023, Haneda Airport (HND) introduced the Garden, a paradise to weary travelers that vivified Tokyo’s most conveniently located airport. Connected to Terminal 3, the launchpad for international flights, it spans the Villa Fontaine Hotel, a round-the-clock rooftop spa with alfresco hot spring baths that overlook Mt. Fuji, and shops and restaurants galore. Look out for the Edo period-themed Oedo Food Hall for a ramen or sashimi fix bolstered by saké, or marbled cuts of Japanese beef at the tony Yakiniku Heijoen. Ebisu Mamezono illuminates Japanese sweets with an array of confections like kintsuba, a dense block of red bean paste subtly coated with flour and water.

04 of 10

Singapore Changi Airport (Singapore)

A delayed flight at Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) isn’t so tragic, given the abundance of attractions in the nature- and entertainment-fueled Jewel complex. There’s a gushing, seven-story indoor waterfall, as well as the glass-bottomed Mastercard Canopy Bridge that’s suspended nearly 10 feet above ground. There are ample dining spots from which to choose. Savor such Peranakan classics as a Hainanese pork chop at the emerald-hued Violet Oon Singapore at Jewel. Pick up a warm curry puff laden with potatoes, chicken, and boiled egg chunks from one of the Old Chang Kee outlets in Terminal 2 and 4. And if you don’t mind getting your hands messy, tackle a massive chilli crab at Jewel’s JUMBO Seafood.

05 of 10

Hamad International Airport (Doha, Qatar)

A sense of tranquility pervades Hamad International Airport (DOH), thanks to recliner-lined quiet rooms and the 2022 arrival of the Orchard, a sprawling indoor tropical garden. Both are welcomed by those who gear up for long-haul flights. And the food and beverage options also provide rejuvenation. Although glitzy international favorites like Harrods Tea Room and Emporio Armani Caffe promise familiarity, it’s better to delve into Middle Eastern culture. Ask for a chicken shawarma from Baladna Express, or wander through Souq Al Matar, a nostalgic marketplace in the North node terminal. Drop in at Chapati & Karak for a milky, spiced tea and namesake Indian wrap, or go for a juicy beef kebab at Basta.

06 of 10

Istanbul Airport (Istanbul)

Delicious, sesame seed-encrusted simits abound at the mall-reminiscent Istanbul Airport (IST), home to more than 10 locations of tasty Turkish-born bakery Simit Sarayi. The bagel-esque bread comes in handy as an on-the-go snack, but it’s far more fun to spend a layover at Cuisine Anatolia, close to the A-B Pier. You can feast on beef köfte and syrupy, diamond-shaped slabs of flaky walnut baklava. Especially transporting is Kaimakk, near Pier D, a patisserie where you can enjoy such ethereal treats as a raspberry-rose tart and Turkish Delight sticks. It’s served against the backdrop of pillars and a lavish travertine fountain heightened by mouth-blown glass.

07 of 10

Narita International Airport (Tokyo)

In 2023, Narita International Airport (NRT) unveiled Japan Food Hall, a sleek homage to Japanese specialties in Terminal 2 that offers a collection of well-known restaurants. Buoyed by the mesmerizing glass-walled views of planes landing and taking off, customers deliberate between the likes of Tempura Nihonbashi Tamai's beautifully plated tempura, Unagi Yondaime Kikukawa’s grilled-to-order eel, and bluefin tuna sushi straight from Tokyo’s Toyosu wholesale fish market. Gyukatsu Kyoto Katsugyu’s freshly fried, wasabi-spiked beef cutlets beckon to those with hearty appetites, but traditionalists won’t want to miss the plump okonomiyaki whipped up at Teppanyaki Dotonbori Kurita, an institution dating to 1946.

08 of 10

Incheon International Airport (Seoul, South Korea)

Travelers who haven’t had their fill of bibimbap and buckwheat noodles can seek out a final taste of Korean cooking before boarding their flights at Incheon International Airport (ICN). There are numerous unfussy eateries to choose from at this busy hub. In Terminal 1, for example, the harried might grab Robot Gimbap’s signature veggie-packed, seaweed-wrapped rice rolls, or sample bowls of yukgaejang (spicy beef soup) in the basement food court’s longstanding Jeondongjib. A branch of Samjin Amook, the bakery has turned out bronzed fish cakes since 1953. It deservedly attracts crowds in Terminal 2, as does Bukchangdong Sundubu for its silky bean curd stews.

09 of 10

Heathrow Airport (London)

Pubs are fittingly strewn throughout Heathrow Airport (LHR), but those who clamor for more than a predictable pint have plenty to relish. In Terminal 2, Big Smoke Brew Co. pours Flight Mode Pilsner, an airport exclusive, alongside tender brisket straight from the smoker. All-day truffled egg toasts, crab mac and cheese, and barbecue sriracha chicken burgers await at Terminal 3’s lively Spuntino. For a properly luxurious sendoff, snag a stool at Fortnum & Mason Bar in Terminal 5 and order a glass of bubbly to wash down the Welsh rarebit toastie that’s gussied up with tomato compote. Late-afternoon stops are the perfect excuse to splurge on the afternoon tea spread of finger sandwiches, petite cakes, and scones begging to be slathered with strawberry preserve and lemon curd.

10 of 10

Rome Fiumicino (Rome)

Visits to Rome are elevated by endless bowls of pasta, an enticing ritual that continues to unfold at the Italian capital’s Leonardo da Vinci – Fiumicino Airport. Look onto the boarding gates of Terminal 1 while tucking into spaghetti al pomodoro del Piennolo at the theatrical Sophia Loren Restaurant, complete with an oyster and cocktail bar. Nearby, the sprawling marketplace Eataly (there’s a location in Terminal 3, too) tempts with carbonara-style paccheri, porcini ravioli, and Campari spritzes. Travelers with a penchant for pizza should make a beeline for a Margherita at Rossopomodoro, but those with carnivorous leanings will be grateful for Doppio Malto’s ‘nduja sausage and stracciatella burger.