Title: 'I don't admit guilt': Man charged with stealing US$80,000 from passenger on Singapore Airlines flight
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/us80000-stolen-flight-singapore-airlines-man-charged-not-guilty-4177131
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: A man accused of stealing US$80,000 (S$107,500) in cash from a passenger on board a Singapore Airlines flight from Hong Kong told the court on Thursday (Mar 7) that he would not plead guilty.

Chinese national Peng Hui, 53, was handed one charge of stealing US$80,000 from Lim Ngang Him on SQ899 between 9.30am and 12.30pm on Mar 5.

He allegedly took the cash from a yellow pouch while the plane was en route from Hong Kong to Singapore's Changi Airport.

The police said in a statement that the victim discovered after disembarking at the airport that the money was missing from his bag.

He had placed his bag in the overhead compartment, but did not see any suspicious person rummaging through it.

Officers from the Airport Police Division checked flight records and worked with officers from the Commercial Affairs Department to identify the culprit.

Preliminary investigations showed that the suspect made four remittances at People's Park Complex amounting to S$37,897.70, believed to be part of the stolen cash.

The police halted the transactions and arrested the man.

He was found to have cash of multiple currencies on him, amounting to S$79,662.83.

Peng appeared in court on Thursday in a black shirt and navy pants from his place of remand.

The prosecution asked for a week's adjournment to complete investigations, saying they were still recovering exhibits.

She offered bail of S$20,000, with Singaporean bailors, saying the "high bail amount" was because the sum involved was about S$107,000.

Peng said he was unable to find a Singaporean bailor.

Asked what he intended to do with the charge, Peng said in Mandarin: "I don't admit guilt."

The judge told him to inform prison authorities if he wanted to apply for legal aid and offered him two phone calls to secure bail if possible.

He will return to court next week.

If convicted of theft on a Singapore-controlled aircraft, he could be jailed for up to three years, fined, or both.

Peng is the latest in a series of Chinese nationals hauled to Singapore's courts in recent months for alleged thefts on planes.

In January, Zhang Xiuqiang was jailed for eight months for stealing from passengers on a Scoot flight from Vietnam, remarking that the sentence was "a bit harsh" when he heard it.