Title: These Airlines Have the Most Flight Delays and Cancelations
Source: CNET
URL: https://www.cnet.com/personal-finance/these-airlines-have-the-most-flight-delays-and-cancelations/
--------------------------------------------------

If you're planning to fly during the Thanksgiving holiday week, get ready for crowded airport gates and plane cabins. According to AAA, a record 82 million Americans are expected to travel at least 50 miles from home between Nov. 25 and Dec. 1, and over 6 million are flying. Even if you have your Real ID, you could still run into unexpected delays.

Recent trends aren't so encouraging: In 2025, flight delays have been unusually high, with on-time arrival percentages dropping from January to July for all 10 major US airlines, according to the latest data from the US Department of Transportation. Released in September 2025, the new data reveals that only Hawaiian Airlines (serving the fewest airports among the Top 10 carriers) averaged more than 75% on-time arrivals in July.

For more tips on air travel, check out these tips for saving money on plane tickets and learn how to use AI to plan for travel. Plus, read about the steps you should take if your flight gets canceled.

Which airlines have the highest rates of delays and cancellations?

Airlines' track records for getting passengers to their destinations on time vary from month to month. In July 2025, Hawaiian Airlines had the highest percentage of on-time arrivals -- 78.9% -- according to the Department of Transportation's September 2025 Air Travel Consumer Report.

The same report noted that Allegiant Air had the lowest number of canceled flights, at 0.4%, while JetBlue Airways had the highest number of cancellations, 5%.

Here are the percentages of on-time arrivals for the major US airlines, according to the DOT.

As mentioned, these percentages vary from month to month. You can look up historical reports at the DOT's website.

Avoiding flight delays isn't just a matter of choosing one airline over another. With some careful planning, you can avoid the headaches and get to your destination on time, or at the least, give yourself the best chance for doing so. Read on to learn how to avoid flight delays on your next journey by air, as well as the best and worst airports for on-time arrivals.

1. Don't fly too early or too late

You can expect airports to be busier at certain times of the day. Flights start to back up around 3 p.m., and flights departing after that time have a 50% higher chance of being canceled.

However, you also don't want to fly too early if you can avoid it. Airports tend to be busiest in the early morning, from 5 to 8 a.m., so you'll probably spend more time waiting in TSA lines during those hours. If you want to avoid crowds and you have a flexible schedule, try to book a midday flight, a little before or after noon.

2. Book a nonstop flight or leave extra time for layovers

A layover will make a long trip even longer. Layovers can last up to four hours for domestic flights, and up to 24 hours for international flights.

While you may save some cash by booking a flight that includes an extra stop, you might end up regretting it when your connecting flight gets delayed. By booking a nonstop flight, you'll spend less time in airports and get to your destination earlier. You might end up paying less than you expect if you book your flight early.

3. Install your airline's app on your phone

Most airlines offer a mobile app that allows you to check in to your flight ahead of time. Usually this feature is offered 24 hours before the plane takes off, which means you can save time by completing this step at home. Plus, you'll be able to track the status of your flight and reschedule in case the flight is delayed or canceled.

4. Check the weather early, at both airports

Bad weather is the cause of 75% of flight delays. The number can vary depending on the city and the time of year, but it's always a good idea to check the weather a few days before your flight. Make sure you check both the city you're flying from and the city you're flying to.

For instance, maybe a friend is picking you up at your destination, and you're expecting a storm when you arrive. You can plan accordingly, and save some of your friend's time by telling them to come to the airport later.

5. Don't check bags

Not only are checked bags becoming more expensive, but they're another potential source of delays. You have to spend a few extra minutes getting your extra luggage checked in before your flight, and you might spend a lot longer waiting for it to come off the baggage carousel.

You can avoid those extra steps if you manage to pack everything into your carry-on bag and personal item. This way, you'll have one less thing to worry about when you reach your destination. Plus, it's always nice to travel lighter.

6. Prepare to spend extra time at these airports

The US has some of the world's largest airports, with Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International topping the list. In 2024, an estimated 108 million people passed through Hartsfield-Jackson. Dallas/Fort Worth International had almost 88 million passengers, and Denver International had 82 million.

If you're flying out of Newark Liberty International, LaGuardia Airport, or JFK International, your flight is more likely to be delayed because of weather. Data from the Federal Aviation Administration shows that airports in the New York City area collectively experience twice as many delays compared to the second city on the list (Chicago). Delays are worst in April, May, and June.

Here are the US airports with the lowest and highest percentage of flight delays in 2025, according to InsureMyTrip.

7. Know your rights when it comes to flight refunds

If it comes to the worst and your flight is canceled, keep in mind that you can get a cash refund. According to the US Department of Transportation, you're entitled to a full refund if your flight is canceled -- "regardless of the reason" -- or significantly delayed. The new policy to help protect consumers from surprise airline fees went into effect in August 2024.

In some cases, you can also get a partial refund on the cost of your ticket. If your seat is downgraded or you don't get the services you paid for in advance, such as in-flight Wi-Fi, you should be refunded the difference.

If your flight is canceled and the airline refuses to give you a refund, the DOT recommends you file an official complaint with the federal government. You'll need to provide some basic personal info like your mailing address, plus flight details (including your flight number if you have it) and a description of what happened when your flight was canceled.