Title: The TOURISE Awards Could Decide Where Everyone Is Traveling Next Year
Source: Matadornetwork.com
URL: https://matadornetwork.com/read/tourise-awards-2025/
--------------------------------------------------

The awards are part of a Saudi Ministry of Tourism project called “TOURISE.” It’s a vehicle for tourism professionals from around the world to connect on travel trends, technology, and sustainable development. TOURISE was launched in May 2025 but formally kicks off in November 2025 with the TOURISE Global Summit, where representatives from organizations as widespread as Expedia and Marriott to OYO and the European Commission are expected to attend.

That will make it one of the world’s most wide-reaching gatherings of travel industry leaders, meaning that travel trends coming out of the summit will be shaped by global insight. In non-industry-insider talk: there’s a good chance that the travel predictions made by TOURISE will be spot-on, since they’re agreed upon by experts from around the world.

That’s one reason why the awards are making global headlines, and the winner will be the destinations that experts from all corners of the travel industry agree are the best in the world. Those experts include Caroline Rush, the former director of the British Fashion Council; Albert Read, former managing director of Conde Nast; Lars Nittve, former director of the Tate Modern gallery in London; and Michael Ellis, former director of Michelin Guides, among others.

There are five award categories: the best food and culinary destination, the best arts and culture destination, the best adventure destination, the best entertainment destination, and the best shopping destination. There’s also a top spot awarded to the “Best Overall Destination.” Here are the destinations that snagged a nomination, to inspire your 2026 trip planning.

Culinary nominees: Tokyo, London, and Hong Kong

Tokyo, Japan

Tokyo’s food scene was nominated for how well it spans from centuries-old sushi traditions to cutting-edge dining experiences. In Tokyo, you’ll find everything from early-morning tuna auctions at the famous fish market to omakase (chef’s tasting) dinners at restaurants that sell out months in advance. Diners have no shortage of plant-based cafes and casual ramen stalls to choose from, but can also swing by tiny, 10-person izakayas where chicken skewers and karaage dominate the menu. Tokyo’s late-night food scene is also famous, whether that’s the sprawling department store food halls in Shibuya or the famous “Golden Gai” and “Omoide Yokochō” alleyways in Shinjuku. And the delicacies available in Tokyo, like raw pufferfish, are hard to find anywhere else in the world.

London, England

London has a truly multicultural food identity, known not just for British staples like fish and chips and afternoon tea, but also fantastic Indian food, experimental dining concepts, and epic street food. It’s easy to go from a high-end tasting menu one night to the street-food markets of Shoreditch the next. The TOURISE Awards called it a “cosmopolitan culinary powerhouse” — something visitors can see as soon as they arrive, since even the city’s main airport has world-class food options. It’s easy to plan an entire trip focused on the city’s food scene, though you should at least try to fit in one or two of the city’s tourist highlights, too.

Hong Kong

Hong Kong’s nomination proves that the city has plenty of culinary draws making waves across the world. The city is known for many things, including street-food hawkers, dim sum teahouses, seafood restaurants, high-end fusion kitchens, and bars towering over the city. Fads started in Hong Kong, like the egg waffle and coconut bun, have made waves around the world, and it has an airport food scene to rival London’s. The award nomination had plenty of kind words for Hong Kong’s food scene, calling it “a vertical feast” where “fine dining towers above dai pai dong stalls and noodle shops, blending heritage and global flavors in one dazzling cityscape.”

Arts and Culture nominees: Kyoto, Paris, and New York City

Kyoto, Japan

Kyoto’s nomination is due to the city’s ability to blend its deep historic draws with modern, living culture. According to the awards, ten pieces of criteria are used to judge destinations, lumped into three categories: what they offer, the overall value of visiting, and what it’s like to visit, with judges looking at factors like safety, innovation, and inclusivity, among others. Kyoto scores highly, as visitors can stroll through traditional temples and gardens in the morning, then visit modern art galleries and have creative, trendy restaurant experiences at night. The official listing for Kyoto highlights its “serene gardens, iconic temples, and living crafts, all woven into a vibrant contemporary cultural fabric.”

Paris, France

Paris was named a finalist for its long-standing reputation as one of the most history-rich cities in the world and an active hub for artistic development. The nomination praised its “grand museums” and “blossoming contemporary art” that “keeps the city’s creative spirit alive.” In Paris, visitors can stroll through landmark museums like the Louvre and Musée d’Orsay and visit newer museums like the Fondation Louis Vuitton and the Bourse de Commerce. It’s also a hub for annual events like Nuit Blanche and Paris Photo. It has a strong cafe culture, and is incredibly accessible from other European cities like Barcelona and Zurich.

New York City, USA

The Big Apple took the third nomination, perhaps for slightly more intangible reasons. The TOURISE Awards highlighted the city’s museums and street art, but really praised its “creative pulse that powers everything from Broadway to borough beats.” New York City treats culture as part of daily life, with institutions like the Metropolitan Museum of Art and MoMA — not to mention the modern Banksy Museum — sitting just a few steps from the city’s beloved corner pizza stands and hot dog carts. It’s no secret that its performing arts are the best in the world, and the city’s annual festivals range from Shakespeare performances to celebrations of all-things-Japanese. The city’s culture reflects its diverse population, likely helping it continue to be a driving force behind global pop culture.

Adventure nominees: Galápagos, Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Ancash

Galápagos, Ecuador

The Galápagos Islands were nominated for offering a layered adventure with plenty to do across marine, volcanic, and terrestrial wilderness areas. The Galápagos sit roughly 600 miles off the shore of mainland Ecuador, beckoning travelers with volcanic hiking, some of the best scuba diving in the world, the chance to snorkel with sea lions, and plenty of opportunities to see rare and endangered wildlife that don’t exist anywhere else in the world outside of zoos. The islands are also working toward sustainable tourism with initiatives like the creation of a protected “marine highway” and increased entry fees to support conservation. Today, most visitors visit on luxury cruises, though it’s possible to plan a land-based trip, too.

Bwindi Impenetrable National Park, Uganda

Bwindi Impenetrable National Park is a park in central Uganda that, along with abutting Volcanoes National Park in Rwanda, offers one of the world’s most demanding adventures: tracking mountain gorillas in a UNESCO rainforest. It’s home to nearly half of the world’s remaining wild mountain gorillas, and hiking through it involves steep slopes, dense vegetation so thick your guides will carry machetes, and misty, muddy trails where every step could send you sliding to the ground. But the payoff is getting to spend time with one of the most endangered species on earth. Even getting to the park is an adventure, requiring a flight from Entebbe International Airport to either Kihihi or Kisoro airstrips, followed by a short drive to one of the park’s four trailheads. From there, the trek begins. Gorilla trekking permits are required for all visitors and should be booked well in advance through the park.

The Ancash Region, Peru

Ancash is in north-central Peru, bordered by the Pacific Ocean to the west. Its capital is high-altitude Huaraz, about an eight-hour drive north of Lima. It’s an adventure hub with a relatively new airport known for the Cordillera Blanca (the world’s highest tropical mountain range) and Huascarán National Park. It’s popular with visitors on multi-day hiking trips that mix both epic views with unique cultural moments, allowing travelers to learn about Andean culture while putting their muscles (and lungs) to good use every day.

Entertainment nominees: Seoul, Tokyo, and Mexico City

Seoul, South Korea

When it comes to entertainment, Seoul is a force to be reckoned with. The awards describe it as “innovation meets culture,” which is absolutely accurate, as the city is both a leader in modern tourist attractions and currently shaping the global entertainment scene with the influence of K-pop. Within Seoul, districts like Gangnam and Hongdae are home to music studios, while public spaces are used for everything from limited-edition store pop-ups to food vendors and gorgeous displays of colorful cherry blossoms. The awards recognized this, citing its “K-pop arenas, cutting-edge entertainment, and nightlife that sets global trends,” and a former Matador Network freelance writer even called it “the most underrated city in Asia.”

Tokyo, Japan

Tokyo earned a second nom in the TOURISE Awards in the entertainment category for many of the same reasons it was nominated in the food category: it blends tradition with modernity in a way that continues to become more and more popular with visitors. Anyone who attended Tokyo’s now-closed Robot Restaurant knows the city embraces technology and creativity in entertainment, but it also offers plenty of traditional draw for more interested in the country’s unique history. That includes everything from sumo matches to historical performances and parades throughout the year. The entertainment aspect even blends with the city’s food culture occasionally, as seen at businesses like the Monster Cafe, reptile bars, cat cafes, and even a manuscript bar for writers.

Mexico City, Mexico

Anyone who’s spent time in Mexico City probably knows it’s one of the most vibrant cities in the world, with an entertainment calendar packed full of cultural events, live arts, and festivals that span the city’s many, many neighborhoods. It’s what earned Mexico City a TOURISE Award nomination, with judges complimenting its “festivals, music, and a unique blend of tradition and modern fun.” In Mexico City, you can take day tours to the largest pyramids in the world or take a lively boat tour down the Xochimilco canals, complete with live musicians and homemade food vendors floating by. The city’s museums are some of the most impressive in the Americas (including the artsy Frida Kahlo museum), and you can bet that the city is going to be at maximum energy when the 2026 FIFA World Cup rolls around in June 2026.

Shopping nominees: Singapore, Paris, and London

Singapore

Singapore is a city that redefined what shopping means in the current age, with purpose-built design districts and luxury malls sitting next to street markets and artisan shops. The TOURISE Awards called it “future-focused retail” that “bridges East and West.” Visitors will find high-end brands on Orchard Road or can head to Haji Lane for locally owned shops and more indie brands and designers. And in 2024, Singapore’s Changi Airport was rated as having the best shopping of any airport in the world, making it easy to get a taste of the city’s arts and shopping culture even if you’re just on a quick layover.

Paris, France

Paris has long been associated with some of the world’s most luxurious brands, from fashion giants like Dior and Chanel to modern runway darlings like Coperni to the love-it-or-hate-it styles of Jean Paul Gaultier. The award accurately describes the city as “haute couture and beyond,” but also praise its historic and beloved flea markets and street fairs. It’s a historic fashion capital, yes — but it’s also a global leader in current trends, thanks to events like Paris Fashion Week and no shortage of bakeries able to make even a simple load of bread something to get excited about.

London, England