Title: Singapore Airlines Expands Nonstop Service From Seattle To Changi Airport
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/elizabethbrownfield/2025/08/26/singapore-airlines-expands-nonstop-service-from-seattle-to-changi-airport/
--------------------------------------------------

Travelers in the Pacific Northwest now have more options for flying to Singapore without having to change planes. Singapore Airlines (SIA) recently expanded its nonstop service from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) to Changi Airport (SIN).

Expansion to Five Weekly Flights

Singapore Airlines (SIA) recently added a fifth weekly nonstop option from Seattle to Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). The airline — which has ranked as one of the world’s top airlines for several years running — now offers Friday service on its SQ27 route. This is in addition to its existing schedule of flights on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sundays.

Scheduled to depart Seattle at 10:15 AM Pacific time and arrive in Singapore the following day at 5:35 PM local time, the 16 hour and 20 minute flight is the longest nonstop flight operating from SEA. Not having to change planes en route to Singapore is a major perk for travelers hoping to catch some sleep on the long-haul international flight — especially those in business class, who can take advantage of SIA’s plush leather seats that convert into lay-flat beds.

Return to a Pre-Pandemic Cadence

The route originally debuted in September 2019 with three weekly flights. This increased to five flights per week in late 2019, but the schedule was quickly halted in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The recent expansion of service that began in May of this year marks a return to the pre-pandemic schedule.

Cabins and Amenities

The nonstop route is operated on an Airbus A350, a wide-body aircraft designed to make travelers comfortable during long-haul flights. Each economy class seat is equipped with a six-way adjustable headrest, power outlet, USB port, and HD touchscreen monitor featuring the KrisWorld entertainment system with over 1,800 viewing options.

Premium economy seats also come with a built-in footrest, two USB ports, a touchscreen handset and 13-inch HD enabled touchscreen monitor, noise-canceling headphones, and “Book the Cook” meal options (more on that below).

Business class is kitted out with those and more luxe amenities, including a larger, 18-inch HD touchscreen monitor, side and front storage areas, and HDMI and USB ports. Most importantly, the Scottish leather seats convert into lay-flat beds with cushioned headboards, pillows, linens, and a duvet.

Inflight Culinary Offerings

SIA’s “farm-to-plane” focused inflight menus highlight ingredients like steelhead trout from Hudson Valley Fisheries, and handmade cheeses from Oregon’s award-winning Rogue Creamery. Through the airline’s wellness partnership with the famed Golden Door spa, they also offer light and healthy dishes designed exclusively for the airline.

Travelers in premium economy and business classes can select from a robust list of menu options up to six weeks in advance with the airline’s “Book the Cook” service, with restaurant-level dishes like poached lobster and turnip with Meyer lemon aioli and microgreens (from vertical indoor farm AeroFarms), smoked trout with caviar, greens, and wakame in tarragon-mustard dressing, and Madeline cake topped with marinated berries all on offer.

Singapore’s Changi Airport

Another major perk of SIA expanding their SQ27 service from Seattle to Singapore is the award-winning Jewel Changi Airport itself. The sleek and contemporary $1.7 billion complex, which was designed by famed architect Moshe Safdie, debuted in 2019.

You’ve likely seen photos of Jewel’s jaw-dropping “rain vortex,” a striking seven-story water feature that holds the title of world’s tallest indoor waterfall. It’s set amid a “forest valley,” a lush garden landscape with more than 120 species of plants. That includes more than 2,000 olive trees, palms, banyans, and other trees — plus over 10,000 plants like cascading ferns, colorful flamingo and water lilies, and flowering orange tulip ginger. Visitors can explore the vast garden via several levels, including a treetop canopy bridge, and suspended nets designed for walking and bouncing.

The Jewel complex also boasts a long list of attractions, including a butterfly garden, a high-tech mirror maze, and an IMAX movie theater. Its 250-plus retailers are also such a draw, stylish locals even visit the complex just to go shopping.

Thanks to its stunning architecture, vast gardens, and abundance of retail, dining, and entertainment options, Changi Airport nabbed three top spots on Forbes Travel Guide’s 2024 Verified Air Travel Awards: Best International Airport, Best Airport Design, and Best Airport Wellness Experience.