Title: ☕Afternoon briefing on July 6
Source: Vietnamplus.vn
URL: https://en.vietnamplus.vn/afternoon-briefing-on-july-6/255871.vnp
--------------------------------------------------

Hanoi (VNA) - The following is a brief review of theday’s events as reported by the Vietnam News Agency.

- The Party and the State have always paid due attention to warinvalids, families of martyrs, social policy beneficiaries, and those whorendered great service to the nation, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh affirmedon July 6.

At a Hanoi meeting with a delegation of 40national contributors from the northern province of Nam Dinh on the occasion ofWar Invalids and Martyrs Day (July 27, 1947-2023), the PM said many exclusivepolicies and guidelines to this end have been worked out andadopted, stressing that caring for national contributors forms animportant part of the social welfare work which, at the same time, is also acrucial, regular, political task. Read full story

Chairman of the CPV Central Committee’s Commission for Internal Affairs Phan Dinh Trac (R) has a working session with General Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece Dmitris Koutsoumpas (Photo: VNA)

- A delegation of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV), ledby Politburo member and Chairman of the CPV Central Committee’s Commission forInternal Affairs Phan Dinh Trac paid a working visit to Greece from July 2 toJuly 6.

During the trip, the delegation met with and hadworking sessions with Vice President of the New Democracy Party andMinister of Labour Adonis Georgiadis; General Secretary of the Communist Partyof Greece Dmitris Koutsoumpas; and Secretary General of Justice &Human Rights Panos Alexandris, among others. Read full story

- The promotion of the "bamboo diplomacy"demonstrates Vietnam's confidence in foreign affairs, and serves the goal ofensuring national interests under all circumstances and at all times, said Dr.Nguyen Hong Hai, a researcher at the Centre for PolicyFutures underthe University of Queensland in Australia.

In a recent interview granted to the Vietnam NewsAgency, Hai stressed that the “bamboo diplomacy” is also the diplomaticphilosophy of Vietnam. Read full story

- A conference was held in Hanoi on July 5 to discuss therole of the youth in the implementation of sustainable development goals inVietnam.

A survey released by ActionAid Vietnam andpartners showed that nearly 57% the of youngsters held that a lack of knowledgeand career skills is one of the factors hindering their engagement insustainable development. Read full story

- The chance has come and doesn’t wait any, so it isnecessary seize it to step up rice export, Minister of Agriculture and RuralDevelopment Le Minh Hoan told this ministry’s meeting on July 6.

Le Thanh Hoa, Deputy Director of the ministry’sDepartment of Quality, Processing and Market Development, said the ricesector’s outlook is assessed as relatively positive for the second half of 2023since many other rice producers in Asia are facing risks of declined output dueto El Nino impacts, which will boost rice demand and prices in the globalmarket. Read full story

- The State budget's revenues from export-import activitiestotaled 183.74 trillion VND (over 7.74 billion USD) in the first six months ofthis year, making up 43.23% of the estimate, down 19.19% year-on-year, theGeneral Department of Vietnam Customs (GDVC) reported on July 5.

During the period, the country's totalexport-import value was estimated at 316.64 billion USD, down 15.1%year-on-year. Read full story

- A second airport in the capital region is expected totake shape by 2050 to ease the burden on the Noi Bai International Airport,according to the Ministry of Transport.

Responding to the Hanoi People’s Committee’sproposal on the building of the airport, the ministry said the constructionmatches Hanoi’s development orientations by 2030 with a vision towards 2045,and the national master plan for 2021-2030 with a vision towards 2050. Read full story

Da Nang is the only locality in Vietnam to host a fireworks festival. (Photo: VNA)

- Fireworks teams from France and Italy who have entered thefinal of the Da Nang International Fireworks Festival (DIFF) 2023 are now readyfor their last performances on July 8.

Edouard Gregoire, head of the French team, saidthe team has made thorough preparations in both techniques and music, aiming toleave strong impressions on spectators and the jury. Read full story

- The Vietnam Football Federation announced that the Vietnamesenational women’s football team and head coach Mai Duc Chung arrived in NewZealand on July 6 to start their 2023 FIFA World Cup campaign.

They took three flights from Hanoi to Singapore’s ChangiAirport, then Auckland and Napier for nearly 24 hours. Now, they are in Napiercity where they will play a friendly match with the New Zealand team, startingtheir final preparation phase towards the 2023 Women's World Cup in New Zealandand Australia./. Read full story

VNA

Related News

☕Afternoon briefing on July 4

04/07/2023 17:06

The following is a brief review of the day’s events as reported by the Vietnam News Agency.

☀️ Morning digest July 5

05/07/2023 08:04

The following is a list of selected news summaries last night by the Vietnam News Agency.

☕Afternoon briefing on July 5

05/07/2023 16:35

The following is a brief review of the day’s events as reported by the Vietnam News Agency.

☀️ Morning digest July 6

06/07/2023 08:17

The following is a list of selected news summaries last night by the Vietnam News Agency.