Title: Delta expands time-saving program for international flyers at Atlanta
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/delta-air-lines-baggage-transfer-seoul-atlanta/
--------------------------------------------------

ADVERTISEMENT

Delta expands time-saving program for international flyers at Atlanta

The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.

The airport experience keeps getting less stressful for passengers flying to the U.S. from abroad — especially for travelers hurrying to catch a connecting flight.

In recent months, we've seen the U.S. relax some security protocols for passengers after a long intercontinental flight. This specifically applies to flights from the U.K. and Australia.

Up next are flights from South Korea.

Delta Air Lines announced on Wednesday that passengers flying into Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) from Seoul's Incheon International Airport (ICN) no longer have to wait (and then recheck) their luggage before heading to their connecting flight.

Those passengers' bags will now transfer right to their next plane, just like they would on a domestic connection.

That may sound like a fairly small change, but Delta estimates that this shift could save travelers an average of 25 minutes. That's precious time during a layover.

When to go: These are the best times to buy an international flight

Simplifying security rules after an international flight

Normally, travelers flying inbound to the U.S. have to go through an arduous series of steps before reaching their connecting gate. They have to clear passport control, wait for their bag, recheck it and then go back through security.

Over the last few months, airlines (alongside the Transportation Security Administration) have started reducing some of those requirements for travelers flying into the U.S. from certain countries with similar security protocols.

Daily Newsletter

Reward your inbox with the TPG Daily newsletter

Join over 700,000 readers for breaking news, in-depth guides and exclusive deals from TPG’s experts

Email address

Submitting...

By signing up, you will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.

In fact, just two weeks ago, Delta (and Virgin Atlantic) removed the bag and security recheck requirements for passengers connecting in ATL after an inbound flight from London's Heathrow Airport (LHR).

American Airlines recently launched a similar "one-stop security" trial for its passengers connecting at Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) after a flight from LHR.

Seoul-Atlanta connections get simplified

Now, that concept is expanding (though in a more limited capacity) for Delta passengers flying from Seoul to Atlanta and then connecting to another flight.

Those travelers still have to reclear security, but their bags will transfer right over.

Read more: 'Game-changer' alternative to Global Entry now available at 8 US airports this summer

Why the TSA says this is safe

Through the partnership, South Korean security officials send the TSA X-ray images of passengers' bags taken on the ground at checkpoints at ICN.

TSA agents can examine those images while passengers are flying, eliminating the need for a recheck after the flight.

"By leveraging advanced technology and enhancing our processes, we are driving innovation in air travel that adds an extra layer of security while streamlining the entry process for international travel," Diane Sabatino, U.S. Customs and Border Protection's acting executive assistant commissioner of operations, said in a statement Wednesday.

The new one-stop protocols also extend to passengers flying Korean Air, Delta's SkyTeam alliance partner, which also operates flights between Seoul and Atlanta.

Related: Best credit cards for Global Entry and TSA PreCheck

Which airports have one-stop security?

While many passengers will cheer the less cumbersome security rules, this does mean the postflight protocols are less consistent from one airport to another.

Here's a quick rundown of all the one-stop programs now in place, as of Aug. 13:

If you're flying from London to Atlanta or Dallas, you can skip the bag and security recheck and head right to your connecting flight.

If you're flying from Seoul to Atlanta on Delta, your baggage will transfer right to your connecting flight, but you'll still need to reclear security.

If you're flying from Sydney to Los Angeles on American Airlines, your bag will transfer right to your connecting flight, but you'll still need to reclear security.

Additionally, if you're flying from Atlanta or Dallas to London and connecting at LHR, you can skip the security recheck there (bags already transfer right to connections).

Bottom line

The U.S. government has said that it hopes to add partnerships with more countries to these streamlined security protocols. That should help save passengers time in the U.S. and at airports overseas.

Delta, for one, told TPG that it hopes to eliminate the security recheck requirement for passengers coming from Seoul and connecting in Atlanta in the near future.

Related reading:

The best time to book flights for the cheapest airfare

Best airline credit cards

What exactly are airline miles, anyway?

6 real-life strategies you can use when your flight is canceled or delayed

Maximize your airfare: The best credit cards for booking flights

The best credit cards to reach elite status

Featured image by SEAN CUDAHY/THE POINTS GUY

Editorial disclaimer: Opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airline or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities.