Title: Singapore cos pledge Rs 5 lakh crore investment in India after PM Modi's Roundtable with Business Leader​​s
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/india/singapore-cos-pledge-rs-5-lakh-crore-investment-in-india-after-pm-modis-roundtable-with-business-leaders/articleshow/113097551.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit to Singapore has resulted in a significant investment commitment of Rs 5 lakh crore from Singaporean companies. Modi encouraged businesses to invest in various sectors, highlighting the aviation sector's need for over 100 new airports and increased competition in domestic air traffic.

After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's recent visit, India has secured an investment worth Rs 5 lakh crore from Singapore companies in the next few years.

The meeting comes after PM Modi on Thursday invited Singaporean business leaders to look at investment opportunities in India in sectors like aviation, energy, and skill development. In his interaction with a group of leading Singaporean CEOs from diverse sectors, Modi said India had made transformative progress in the last 10 years and would continue on the same path given its strengths of political stability, policy predictability, ease of doing business, and its reform-oriented economic agenda.

India is set to become the third largest economy in the world over the next few years, he told the CEOs from sectors, including investment funds, infrastructure, manufacturing, energy, sustainability and logistics.

Lim Boon Heng (Chairman, Temasek Holdings), Lim Chow Kiat (CEO, GIC Private Limited), Goh Choon Phong (CEO, Singapore Airlines), Yam Kum Weng (CEO, Changi Airport Group), Yuen Kuan Moon (CEO, SingTel), and Piyush Gupta (CEO and Director, DBS Group) were among the corporate leaders present in the business round table, an official release said.

Live Events

Deputy Prime Minister Gan Kim Yong and Minister for Home Affairs and law K Shanmugam of Singapore also participated in the event.

Prime Minister Modi acknowledged the role played by the Singaporean industry leaders in strengthening bilateral relations and promoting economic cooperation between India and Singapore.

To further facilitate their collaboration with India, the prime minister announced the setting up of an INVEST INDIA office in Singapore.

He further added that the elevation of India-Singapore ties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership would give a major thrust to bilateral economic relations.

Talking of India's impressive growth story, its skilled talent pool, and expansive market opportunities, Modi highlighted that India is contributing 17 per cent to global economic growth.

He spoke about various initiatives to enhance India's participation in global value chains through programmes such as Production Linked Incentive scheme, India Semiconductor Mission and establishment of 12 new Industrial Smart Cities.

He called upon the business leaders to look at opportunities in India in the field of skill development.

For businesses looking for resilient supply chains, the prime minister noted that India is the best alternative given its strengths.

Modi assured the participants that India will increase the pace and scale of infrastructure development in his third term and apprised the CEOs of new opportunities in the fields of railways, roads, ports, civil aviation, industrial parks and digital connectivity.

(with PTI inputs)

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

Can targeted reforms at home save India from external shocks?

Paisabazaar wanted to get you loans; now it wants your funds

How new securities law changes the definition of depositories

Is Air India the cocktail turning bitter for Tatas?

As West Asia boils, will Dubai’s loss be a GIFT for India?

Long-term investing: The only play in today’s market; 5 large-caps from different sectors with upside potential of up to 33%

1

2

3