Title: Yotel Partners With Frasers Hospitality To Launch Yotel Tokyo Ginza In 2025
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/announcement/41011021.html
--------------------------------------------------

YOTEL Tokyo Ginza is steps away from the city's most popular dining and shopping destination, featuring flagship stores for many of the world's best-known brands. The hotel is only a fifteen-minute walk from Tokyo Station, providing easy access to most parts of Japan via the main Shinkansen high-speed rail terminal and serving as the city's main gateway to Narita International Airport through the Narita Express.

Revealing new visuals of its public space today, YOTEL Tokyo Ginza showcases the brand's distinctive signature style, seamlessly blending modern design with locally inspired artwork. The interior design offers a striking contrast between refined public spaces and refreshing room designs which provide an escape from the bustling streets of Ginza below.

Featuring 244 rooms, the hotel will showcase the brand's latest features including a signature robotic concierge, motorised SmartBeds™, and fully integrated technologies enabling a complete digital guest experience from reservation up to check-out.

"We are delighted to announce our partnership with Frasers Hospitality to introduce YOTEL to one of the world's most exciting destinations. YOTEL Tokyo Ginza will stand as a flagship for our brand, and we are thrilled to collaborate with an investor who shares our dedication to innovation and excellence in hospitality" commented Hubert Viriot, Chief Executive Office at YOTEL.

YOTEL Tokyo Ginza is part of YOTEL's wider strategy to expand across key cities in Japan including Osaka, Kyoto, Sapporo, Yokohama, Fukuoka, Nagoya, and Kobe. The group is also working on opportunities to roll out YOTELAIR - the group's unique transit hotel concept - at key gateway airports and train stations.

YOTEL Tokyo Ginza will be the first of several new openings in the region for YOTEL, followed by properties in Bangkok and Kuala Lumpur in 2025-6. Joining YOTEL Singapore Orchard Road and YOTELAIR Singapore Changi Airport, the growth across Asia is a strategic part of the brand's commitment to new markets and goal to reach 50 hotels opened and signed by 2025.

announced its partnership with Singapore-based Frasers Hospitality, to open the first YOTEL hotel in Japan in early 2025. YOTEL Tokyo Ginza is located in central Tokyo's most desirable and dynamic neighbourhood.