Title: Maker’s Mark Just Dropped a New Bourbon, but You’ll Have to Travel to Singapore to Get a Bottle
Source: Robb Report
URL: https://robbreport.com/food-drink/spirits/makers-mark-wood-finishing-series-singapore-edition-bourbon-whiskey-1235512246/
--------------------------------------------------

Maker’s Mark may have ended its Wood Finishing Series stateside, but apparently this series of special stave-finished bourbons lives on in the form of the City Series. The latest release is a new global travel retail exclusive whiskey that is only available in Singapore.

Maker’s Mark, which is owned by parent company Beam Suntory, is known for its core lineup of wheated bourbon (using wheat as the secondary grain instead of rye). Last summer the distillery launched the fantastic Cellar Aged, its oldest whiskey to date. And over the past few years, different releases in its Wood Finishing Series have come out, each finished with a variety of oak staves that are cooked to different levels to impart unique flavors into the whiskey. When I visited the distillery last summer, the team said that the Wood Finishing Series was over, at least in its current form, although it could return in another incarnation.

This new whiskey is the fourth in the Wood Finishing City Series, following New York and Sydney releases in 2022 and Frankfurt in 2023. All of the whiskeys are available exclusively at global travel retail locations in limited numbers. The Singapore edition was created in collaboration with chef Willin Low and Jigger and Pony bar director Aki Eguchi, who presumably were involved to some degree with selecting the combination of staves used to finish the whiskey and capture a little bit of Singapore in a bottle. “Crafted with a blend of flavors reminiscent of the lush tropical paradise, aromatic notes of pineapple and mango create a delightful burst of exotic fruitiness,” said Eguchi in a statement. “To add depth and complexity, we’ve carefully balanced these tropical elements with a subtle touch of warming spices, nutmeg, clove and cinnamon, making each a journey through a harmonious fusion of flavors that celebrate the spirit of Singapore.” The whiskey was bottled at 54.9 percent ABV.

Maker’s Mark Wood Finishing City Series Singapore Edition is limited to just 720 bottles (SRP $95), and will be available at Lotte Duty Free at Singapore’s Changi Airport in terminal four. There is an activation going on for the new whiskey through February 29 that includes a tasting bar and a free tote bag with every purchase. And according to Maker’s Mark, there will be another City Series release later this year, but no details as of yet which metropolis it will focus on.