Title: Blisswater Industries unveils limited-edition whisky for Bengaluru Duty-Free
Source: BusinessLine
URL: https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/blisswater-industries-unveils-limited-edition-whisky-for-bengaluru-duty-free/article68982496.ece
--------------------------------------------------

Indian alcobev company Blisswater Industries recently launched the limited-edition Yaksha Bluemoon Artisanal Whisky at the Bengaluru Duty-Free, Kempegowda International Airport. The company released 1,200 bottles in 2024.

“We are focused on infusion-based products with a story behind them. We want to provide our consumers with a unique experience while considering the Indian value-for-money proposition. We have premium packaging, and quality mass premium to premium products. We also have a bunch of limited and luxury editions coming up,” shared Varna Bhat, Founder & Master Blender, House of Blisswater.

While the company exports its products to countries like the US, Japan, Singapore, Maldives, Australia, and the UK, domestically, it is present in Goa, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka, and Chhattisgarh, with plans to enter other states shortly.

Speaking about the growth, Varna explained, “Last year, we were in three markets -- Goa, Maharashtra, Rajasthan. This year, we’re in Karnataka, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, and others. The year before, we were in just one country. Now, we’re in seven countries including India.”

Blisswater Industries’ products are available in almost 80 per cent of the country’s international airports and in Singapore duty-free, at the international Changi Airport. It also supplies some navy canteens across the country.

Yaksha Bluemoon Artisanal Whisky is a blend that combines Indian malt with five-year-aged Scotch malt. Alongside, the company’s portfolio also includes Rahasya, a spice-infused vodka, launched in December 2020. However, between whisky and vodka, the former makes up 70 per cent revenue share, with vodka at 30 per cent.

She continued, “If you look at the trends, almost everybody, even legacy businesses, is innovating in the whisky space. The audience is moving to try better, newer value proposition products. You can’t just give the same liquid in a differently packaged format to a consumer anymore.”

Blisswater Industries produces its spirits in a leased distillery in Ponda, Goa. “Our production capacity is good enough to take care of our requirements for the next year and a half but post that, we will be looking at further expansion,” Bhat said.

In 2021, Blisswater Industries raised a Seed funding round of $335,000 from CC One Venture Labs, Majithia Family House, and independent investors Yash Shah (the co-founder of Disruptium) and Sham Kishor Bhat.

“After that, we realised it’s best to gain traction for the business and get more value in terms of a larger consumer outreach before looking at larger raises. That is what we’re doing. We are not currently in fundraising mode but are always open to conversations,” said the founder, adding the company is more focused on growing across territories.

Published on December 14, 2024