Title: Soetta Airport revitalization to boost capacity, productivity: Sumadi
Source: Antaranews.com
URL: https://en.antaranews.com/news/289212/soetta-airport-revitalization-to-boost-capacity-productivity-sumadi
--------------------------------------------------

Transportation Minister Budi Karya Sumadi during a revitalization project review at Soekarno-Hatta (Soetta) Airport, in Tangerang, Banten, on Saturday (July 22, 2023). (ANTARA/HO-BKIP Kemenhub)
							
						              
					Jakarta (ANTARA) - Transportation Minister Budi Karya Sumadi has said that Soekarno-Hatta (Soetta) Airport in Tangerang, Banten, is being revitalized to improve its capacity and increase passenger and aircraft movements.

According to him, the renovation of the airport's terminals is one of the efforts that have been made to increase passenger capacity from 65 million per year to 110 million per year.

"Terminal 2F, which is for international (flights), will be enlarged to (around) 70 thousand square meters," he informed while reviewing the revitalization project on Saturday, according to an official statement released the same day.

Sumadi said that the Soetta Airport revitalization project will cover the land side and air side.

On the land side, Terminal 1B and Terminal 1C, which cater to domestic flights, are being revitalized by state-run airport operator PT Angkasa Pura (AP) II and state-owned construction firm PT PP.

Meanwhile, the renovation of Terminal 2F is being carried out by AP II and state-owned construction company PT Adhi Karya.

On the air side, a runway revitalization project is being carried out by AP II and a system/software installation is being conducted by state-owned air navigation services company AirNav Indonesia to boost the productivity of aircraft movements, or the number of flights taking off and landing at the airport.

The minister said that the revitalization is being carried out to accommodate the increasing demand for flights from and to Jakarta through Soetta Airport.

According to him, the revitalization is expected to be completed in around six months.

With the revitalization, Terminal 2F is expected to accommodate up to 7 million passengers per year compared to 3 million passengers previously.

The revitalization project is covering the interior design, replacement of mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (MEP) equipment and networks, and the construction of a connection between the boarding lounge and Umrah lounge, among others.

The total area of Terminal 2F after the revitalization will be 74,964 square meters from 36,402 square meters originally.

Meanwhile, the revitalization of Terminal 1C is being carried out on the ground floor, over an area of 46,100 square meters, and the first floor, over an area of 38,200 square meters.

Terminal 1C's revitalization includes the passenger departure and arrival service area, commercial area, office area, boarding lounge connection, passenger luggage area, and the MEP project.

Related news: Soekarno Hatta is Southeast Asia's busiest airport for 2022
Related news: AP II says 20 major airports ready for long weekend
Related news: Angkasa Pura II, Changi Airport Group synergize for aviation recovery

 

 

 Translator: Benardy Ferdiansyah, Raka AdjiEditor: Azis Kurmala					Copyright © ANTARA 2023