Title: Chick-fil-A is cooking up a $75 million plan for chicken domination in Asia — starting with Singapore
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/chick-fil-a-75-million-plan-chicken-singapore-asia-2024-10
--------------------------------------------------

Chick-fil-A has announced plans for a restaurant in Asia, set to open in Singapore in late 2025.

In a press release on Thursday, the fast-food chain said the restaurant's opening is part of a 10-year-long, $75 million investment into Singapore.

The restaurant will be Chick-fil-A's first venture into the Asian market.

"The profound love that Singaporeans have for food as well as the city's strategic position as a gateway to the Asian market make it the ideal choice for Chick-fil-A's first permanent Restaurant in the region," Anita Costello, Chick-fil-A's chief international officer, said in the release.

Chick-fil-A held a three-day pop-up event in Singapore in June, where people on the island got to try the food.

The brand is also accepting Singaporean applications to be the island's "first independent Chick-fil-A franchise Owner-Operator."

When contacted for comment, a Chick-fil-A representative told Business Insider that the brand "recognizes the great potential of international growth."

"We look forward to future expansion in Europe and Asia in 2025, with plans to open restaurants in additional international markets by 2030," the representative said.

Chick-fil-A reported sales of about $22 billion in 2023. And the average Chick-fil-A franchise made $9.4 million in sales that year.

People who want to open a new restaurant must pay a $10,000 franchise fee, but the company told Business Insider it doesn't require candidates to meet a threshold for net worth or liquid assets.

Chick-fil-A joins the ranks of other big Western food brains that have expanded to Singapore.

When burger chain Shake Shack opened its first highly anticipated store in Singapore's Jewel Changi Airport in 2019, a snaking line had to be split into four barricaded zones.

Singaporean fans of the chain started queuing some six hours before the doors opened, Channel News Asia reported.

Since opening its first outlet in the airport in 2019, it has added nine more outlets around the city-state, including one in the popular tourist attraction Gardens by the Bay.

Baked goods company Cinnabon and Canadian coffee chain Tim Hortons also opened in 2023, with both seeing long queues and high demand upon launch.

Tim Hortons now has 11 outlets in Singapore. Cinnabon has three.