Title: United Airlines 'tactically pruning' flights amid high fuel prices due to the Iran war
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/united-airlines-cut-scheduled-flights-high-fuel-prices-iran-war-2026-3
--------------------------------------------------

The war with Iran will soon limit your flight options — even domestically.

United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby announced on Friday that the company will be "tactically pruning" its "temporarily unprofitable" flights amid surging fuel costs tied to the Middle East conflict, which are squeezing margins.

The carrier plans to cut about 5% of all scheduled flights and 3% of its off-peak flights over the second and third quarters of 2026. Kirby said that red-eyes and flights on low-traffic days of the week would be the first to go, but the airline expects to restore its full schedule by fall.

"If prices stayed at this level, it would mean an extra $11 billion in annual expense just for jet fuel," Kirby said in a message to employees posted on the company's website. "For perspective, in United's best year ever, we made less than $5B."

"Our plans assume oil goes to $175/barrel and doesn't get back down to $100/barrel until the end of 2027," Kirby added. "And there's a part of me that can't help but feel United is playing offense right now with potentially big rewards at the end."

The new round of cuts may look similar to the flight cuts during the 2025 government shutdown, which became the country's longest in history. Following Federal Aviation Administration orders to reduce flights by 10% at 40 major airports to address a shortage of air traffic controllers, United Airlines began by cutting flights on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays.

Kirby's statement indicates that the carrier remains on track to take delivery of 120 new aircraft this year and to expand its infrastructure at Newark Liberty International Airport. Kirby also added that the company will not be furloughing employees.

The FAA did not immediately respond to a request for comment.