Title: Wildlife Spotlight: This Lush Indonesian Island Is A Paradise For Orangutan Trekking
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/jaredranahan/2024/08/27/wildlife-spotlight-this-lush-indonesian-island-is-a-paradise-for-orangutan-trekking/
--------------------------------------------------

While Bali draws massive crowds of tourists each year thanks to its world-class resorts and stunning landscapes, it’s far from the only island worth visiting in Indonesia. In the western reaches of the country, Sumatra serves as the second-largest island in the nation and sixth-largest on the planet, with no shortage of fascinating cities and natural attractions to visit across its shores—yet when it comes to planning a truly bucket-list-worthy foray into the wilderness, it’s tough to find a better destination than Gunung Leuser National Park.

Officially established in 1980, this sprawling preserve is a crucial component to preserving Sumatra’s rich biodiversity, with just under 8,000 square kilometers of land that are brimming with vast swathes of pristine tropical rainforest. While the park plays host to a massive array of native reptiles and insects, it’s best known for harboring all sorts of charismatic megafauna, with Sumatran tigers, Sumatran rhinos and Sumatran elephants all calling the region home. Yet when it comes to ecotourism, one animal in particular draws tourists from all across the globe.

The planet is home to three extant orangutan species, and the northern reaches of Sumatra are perfect for spotting the aptly-named Sumatran orangutan. For best results, visitors can fly into the sprawling city of Medan and then embark on a three-hour drive to the village of Bukit Lawang, a charming community that serves as the gateway into Gunung Leuser National Park. The surrounding area was once home to a facility that was tasked with rearing orangutans that had been rescued from the illegal pet trade, and today, the descendants of these orangutans roam free, existing in the wild as they have for eons.

Of course, it’s best not to wander haphazardly into the wilderness in search of orangutans, so you’ll need an experienced guide to aid you on your journey—and fortunately, Sumatra Orangutan Explore is in place to ensure your trip goes smoothly. This local tour operator holds ethical ecotourism as a core tenant, ensuring that all participants keep a safe distance from the apes and prevent the animals from feeling unsafe or stressed. The company offers multiple options for guests including a two-day trek that involves an overnight stay in a jungle tent, while ambitious adventurers can book a five-day excursion that ventures into the verdant depths of the rainforest—and as an added bonus, it’s not just orangutans that might make an appearance for visitors.

Great apes abound across Gunung Leuser National Park, but smaller primates can also be found dotting the treetops, with residents like the southern pig-tailed macaque, North Sumatran leaf monkey and lar gibbon all calling the region home. Meanwhile, the park also acts as a paradise for visiting birdwatchers, with colorful species like the black-and-yellow broadbill and orange-bellied flowerpecker found flitting along the forest canopy—but perhaps the most impressive avian species to discover during your trek is the rhinoceros hornbill. Outfitted with a massive casque perched on the edge of its beak, these majestic beasts can reach a wingspan of roughly 1.5 meters.

While Sumatra may not be as popular a tourist destination as islands like Bali, Java and Komodo, the rich biodiversity and unique cities make this sprawling region well-worth visiting—and to sweeten the deal, Medan is just a ninety-minute flight away from Singapore’s Changi Airport. Whether you jet in just for orangutans or you tack on a few days to explore the gorgeous architecture and thriving food scene across Medan, the northern reaches of Sumatra are perfect for crafting a truly unforgettable ecotourism adventure.