Title: Korean Air is Upgrading and Expanding Lounges Across Its Network
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/korean-air-is-upgrading-and-expanding-lounges-across-its-network/
--------------------------------------------------

1.8K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Korean Air announced this week that it is making some major changes to its lounges at Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) and other locations like Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK). Lounges will see expansion, service enhancements, and elevated experiences.

At Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN), Korean Air will renovate the existing lounges in Terminal 2. New “Prestige Class Garden Lounges” are being built in both the east and west wings. These will accommodate increased passenger numbers coming from the relocation of Asiana Airlines. The existing Prestige Class Lounge in the east wing will be doubled in size and the Miler Club Lounge will also be expanded. All four lounges will open in phases starting in August 2025.

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.