Title: aespa Karina Turns Airport Into Runway With 'Chaebol-Like' 'Fit, Breathtaking Visuals
Source: Kpopstarz.com
URL: https://www.kpopstarz.com/articles/313304/20230702/aespa-karina-turns-airport-runway-chaebol-fit-breathtaking-visuals.htm
--------------------------------------------------

Following her recent airport appearance, aespa Karina made a buzz among for her breathtaking visuals as if she was walking the runway!

Here are what MYs are saying.

aespa Karina Turns Heads at Airport During Departure To Paris

On July 2, aespa's main visual Karina once again created a legendary airport scene as she was leaving for Paris to attend a fashion event.

Karina arrived at the Incheon International Airport in Unseo-dong, Jung-gu, Incheon via car. Before entering the airport, the idol gladly participated in a brief photo time together with journalists, photographers, and fansites.

In her photos, which were uploaded real-time online, Karina drew massive attention for her luxurious beauty that reminded people of a daughter of a rich household.

ALSO READ: aespa Karina Sparks Debate Due to 'Fake' Body Image — MYs Defend Idol

Wearing a long mid-summer/fall coat, Karina showed off a fashion sense ahead of the season. Under her coat, the idol opted for a matching neat white shirt and two-toned miniskirt that emphasized her classy high-teen vibe.

Karina completed the ensemble by wearing black shoes and high socks, as well as enhancing the whole look by using a brown mini-bag.

For her hairstyle and makeup, the "Thirsty" singer showcased her long black hair with bangs and a peach-like makeup that highlighted her beautiful features, such as her small face.

After her photos and videos were shared on the internet, K-pop fans, especially MYs (aespa fandom), poured out enthusiastic responses.

"There was a 'Human Thom Browne' here."

"Ah, a real-life Barbie doll."

"The long coat looks good on you."

"This is totally legendary."

"Ahh, breathtaking visuals."

"Karina is really the queen among fourth-gen visuals."

"She looks like a conglomerate student."

"While most people's faces swell in the morning, Karina is out there showing her 'quail egg' small face."

Meanwhile, Karina left for France as she is scheduled to attend the Thom Browne Men's & Women's Haute Couture Collection Fashion Week in Paris. The event will take place on July 4th at 12am KST.

As this will be Karina's debut at the event for the New York-based luxury fashion brand, there is a high expectation on her look.

aespa Karina Recent Activities

Meanwhile, aespa is currently in the middle of their first world tour, "SYNK: Hyper Line."

From July 29 to 30, the quartet (comprised of Karina, Giselle, Winter and NingNing) will perform in Thailand for a two-day concert in Thunder Dome.

They completed their first solo concert in Indonesia, wherein they captivated the audiences with their colorful stages that harmonized intense performances and unrivaled musical colors.

READ MORE: aespa Karina Clarifies Misunderstanding About Shared Anime on Bubble: 'I will be more cautious...'

For more K-Pop news and updates, keep your tabs open here at KpopStarz.