Title: What Makes This Asian Capital City A Gem?
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://pointmetotheplane.boardingarea.com/seoul-south-korea/
--------------------------------------------------

3.4K

It was time to rediscover the vibrant city of Seoul, capital of South Korea. I had visited before and it was high on my list for time to revisit destinations. Seoul is the soul of South Korea (pun intended); it represents the culture and achievements of this fascinating country. From an isolated peninsula to a leading world economy, Korea’s story springs from the heart of Seoul.

Where Exactly is South Korea?

South Korea is a peninsula located in both the Eastern and Northern hemispheres. It’s about 500 miles from Japan, and 1,100 miles from China. About 70% of the Korean Peninsula is mountainous, with rugged slopes and forest areas. It also has many miles of flat coastal plains (+5,000 of coastline) where most people live, since this is where they can grow crops and raise animals.

The Republic of Korea is comprised of nine provinces and six large cities. Seoul is considered a special city, and it’s located in the western part of the country.

Interested in K-Drama? Check this out!

South Korea 101: Very Brief History

About 51 million people live in South Korea. After World War II, the Soviet Union and United States divided control over Korea. In 1948, with the support of the U.S., the Republic of Korea was established, with Seoul as the capital.

Korea’s history tells the story of many successive regimes that kept the country independent for more than a thousand years. The last ruling kingdom was the Choson Dynasty, which lasted from 1392-1910.

Korea had to defend its independence from invading countries like Japan and China. As a result, Korea decided to close its borders and limit contact with the outside world. From the 17th to the 19th century, Korea was an isolated country.

Pro tip: Staying healthy is key to enjoying your travels. Here’s my SECRET, and I’ve even got a10% discount for my readers!

Early in the 20th century, China, Japan, and Russia all wanted to control Korea. Japan prevailed, invading and occupying the peninsula in 1905. Japan ruled Korea for the next 35 years. The Japanese treated the Koreans terribly, and tried to wipe out their culture and language. To their credit, during this time, Korea modernized and developed into an industrialized country.

When Japan was defeated in World War II, the direction of Korea was unclear. The Soviet Union and U.S. divided the country into South and North zones. In 1948, the anti-communist leader Syngman Rhee took control of the Republic of Korea (known as South Korea).

The Soviet government, at the same time, supported the first premier of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Kim II Sung. The capital of North Korea was established in Pyongyang.

The Korean War, in an oversimplified nutshell, resulted when North Korea (supported by the Soviet Union and China) invaded South Korea in 1950. The United Nations and the U.S. joined forces to defend South Korea’s independence. More than 2 million people died in the Korean War, which ended in 1953.

The Korean Peninsula remains divided, with a demilitarized zone (DMZ) separating the two countries.

Summer Olympics in South Korea

When South Korea hosted the Summer Olympic Games in Seoul in 1988, the world saw the country in a new positive light. This opened the doors for increased trade—and tourism. Korea has grown and developed its economy, particularly in the high tech and computer sectors.

South Korea today is one of the most affluent countries in Asia, ranking up there with China and Japan.

Do you find it difficult to book award flights with your miles and points? I do! That’s why I turn to Point.me. They get me great deals and save me money and time.

Fascinating Facts About Seoul

After the Korean War, South Korea developed into one of the world’s biggest economies. Seoul in particular is in the top five largest economies in the world, ranking higher than London and Paris.

According to Forbes, Seoul’s success could be because Seoulites have a tendency towards workaholism. To counteract this, the government enacted laws to limit how many hours employees could work.

Seoul has been ranked in the top ten destinations to visit, with more than 10 million international visitors each year (pre-pandemic).

It is twice as densely populated as New York, and eight times as dense as Rome.

Seoul has the world’s fastest internet.

It has the world’s biggest indoor theme park.

It has the largest underground mall in the world.

Incheon International Airport has been ranked as the best airport in the world. It includes a golf course, skating rink, casino, and the Museum of Korean Culture.

Cafes, restaurants, shopping centers and more are open all night.

Why use just any credit card when you can use one that earns miles and points? Don’t miss out on the BEST current travel credit card offers!

More About Seoul

Seoul was founded in 18 BC, and was first known as Wiryeseong. It has been continuously settled for more than 2,000 years.

It is located on the Han River, and is about 37 miles inland from the Yellow Sea to the west. Because of its convenient and strategic location, many kingdoms through history occupied the city of Seoul. The inland waterways and coastal routes converged to make Seoul a site of trade and exchange of information.

The surrounding low hills also helped residents defend their city. But to make it extra secure, the citizens built an 11-mile wall around Seoul. Tourists can still see what remains of the wall when they visit Seoul today.

Seoul developed into two areas on either side of the Han River. The older part, known as North City, was once capital of the Chosôn dynasty (the longest Korean dynasty, existing from 1392 to 1910). The Kyŏngbok Palace still stands within the North City District. Impressive shrines and altars can also be found within this side of the river.

South City, as it is known, is the more modern area of Seoul, South Korea.

During the Korean War, Seoul was a turbulent city. In 1950, North Korean forces occupied the city and destroyed much of it. In 1951 the United Nations troops re-captured Seoul (Briney, 2019).

Seoul: Center of Economy and Government Today

Korea’s economy today is based on tourism, building, and manufacturing. Seoul is the country’s hub for manufacturing. Where textiles, chemicals, clothes, and machinery were once the products manufactured and exported, Seoul now manufactures information technology products and electronics. Many multinational corporations make their headquarters in Seoul. It is the center of finance for Korea, with a “Wall Street” area housing the stock exchange and banks.

The government of modern Korea has evolved from strict military rule (in the 60s and 70s) to a democracy. The government of Seoul is divided into city, district, and neighborhood branches. Mayors are elected to office for each district. A Metropolitan Council has more than 100 elected members who represent their districts and make decisions based on different kinds of committee work.

A Note on Tourism

As for tourism, the three largest groups of visitors are (in order) the Chinese, Japanese, and Americans. There are four UNESCO World Heritage sites in Seoul: the Changdeokgung Palace Complex, the Hwaseong Fortress, the Jongmyo Shrine, and the Royal Tombs of the Joseon Dynasty.

Other popular tourist sites include Ganghwado Island, Pocheon Art Valley, Seoraksan National Park, the Boryeong Mud Festival, and side trips to the many interesting villages, temples, altars, gardens, and fortresses found throughout South Korea. On a more somber note, tourists flock to the contentious DMZ as well.

I Always Get the Lowest Prices on Hotel Rooms: Here’s How!

Final Thoughts On Seoul, South Korea

Reading more about South Korea, I was surprised at the natural beauty of Korea. While it’s true that more than half the population lives in the Seoul area, many people don’t realize that the other half of Korean people come from rural roots.

I expect that visitors notice this contrast between the old/rural customs and the bustling Seoul metropolis. With a history reflecting a strong spirit of pride and resistance to domination, Seoul has led the way to a culture of innovation and prosperity. On that note, no lesson about Korea would be complete without mentioning the wildly popular Korean soap operas or K-Pop music craze.

Annyeonghaseyo hangug!

안녕하세요 한국

(Hello Korea!)

Related Articles: