Title: Alaska Airlines flash sale: Fly to Seoul for 20K Atmos points one-way or BOGO cash fares
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/deals/alaska-airlines-flash-sale-seattle-seoul/
--------------------------------------------------

Alaska Airlines flash sale: Fly to Seoul for 20K Atmos points one-way or BOGO cash fares

Sept. 10, 2025

Alaska Airlines flash sale: Fly to Seoul for 20K Atmos points one-way or BOGO cash fares

The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.

Alaska Airlines' newest route is landing with a bang.

For three days only, you can save big on the carrier's new nonstop service between Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) and Seoul's Incheon International Airport (ICN), whether you choose to pay with cash or points.

But you'll have to act fast: This deal ends Friday, Sept. 12 and is valid on flights through Dec. 15. You'll be flying on Hawaiian Airlines' long-haul 787-9 aircraft.

First off, Alaska is offering a buy-one-get-one sale on economy tickets booked with cash. This means you can buy your travel companion's ticket for just the cost of taxes and fees, which are quite reasonable ($6 from SEA to ICN and $36 on the return flight). That's a heck of a deal, essentially cutting the cost per person in half if you fly with a companion.

As an added bonus, both travelers will earn Atmos Rewards points and elite status points on their tickets.

But the savings don't end there. If you'd rather book with points, Alaska is offering main cabin tickets for only 20,000 Atmos points each way or 40,000 round-trip, plus the cost of taxes and fees.

This route typically costs 30,000 points each way, per Alaska's award chart, so that's a discount of 33% on award fares. And although you won't earn points on the award ticket, you'll still earn one status point for every mile you fly. That's roughly 5,200 status points each way toward your next elite tier.

If you have some Atmos Rewards points burning a hole in your pocket — say, from a welcome bonus on one of the new Atmos credit cards — this could be a great way to use them. And don't forget, you can boost your balance by transferring Bilt Points to Atmos at a 1:1 ratio.

What if you don't live near Seattle? It might be worth finding a cheap positioning flight to take advantage of this deal.

If you want to experience the magic of Seoul at a steep discount, book your nonstop economy ticket from Seattle by Friday, Sept. 12, on the Alaska Airlines website.