Title: South Korea uses dog to sniff out bedbugs coming from Paris Olympics
Source: POLITICO.eu
URL: https://www.politico.eu/article/south-korea-deploys-sniffer-dog-ceco-flights-returning-from-paris-olympics-bedbug/
--------------------------------------------------

South Korea has deployed a bedbug sniffer dog to prevent the small insects entering the country as athletes and fans return from the Paris Olympics.

Yes, you read that right.

Ceco, a 2-year-old beagle with the ability to detect the odor of pheromones, the chemicals released by bedbugs, has been posted at Incheon International Airport.

According to Korean pest control company Cesco, Ceco is the only canine in the country trained to detect such odors and he boasts an accuracy rate of more than 95 percent.

The company has teamed up with South Korea’s ministries of security and transportation, and the Disease Control and Prevention Agency to screen travelers on arrival.

"As the global community is gathering in Paris, France, on the occasion of the 2024 Summer Olympic Games, there’s a chance bedbugs will enter the country following the event,” the government said in a statement.

“Therefore, we are taking a preemptive response to intercept the entry through the Incheon International Airport, which is the main gateway to the country,” it added.

Athletes are returning to South Korea from Paris after competing at the Olympics which ended on Sunday. South Korea won 13 gold medals, finishing in eighth place in the medal race.

Ceco and his team started operating on Friday and will continue to work through Sept. 8, the government said, adding that it had strengthened aircraft disinfection for flights arriving directly from Paris from once a month to once a week.

A bedbug panic hit Paris in September last year, although it was later reported that those fears were actively stoked by Russian operatives.

South Korea also experienced a period of hysteria in 2023 following reports of infestations at a traditional spa, university dorms and train stations, which prompted the government to announce a four-week campaign aimed at eradicating the small insects.