Title: The Evolving Role of the CMO: Leveraging AI for Sustainable Growth, ETBrandEquity
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://brandequity.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/marketing/the-ai-cmo-playbook-pl-leadership-brand-equity-capital-intelligence-and-sustainable-enterprise-growth/129489007
--------------------------------------------------

Highlights

CMOs evolve to become crucial in decision-making and accountability.

AI reshapes marketing strategies, enhancing customer engagement and governance.

Sustainability is integrated into marketing, influencing capital allocation.

The role of the Chief Marketing Officer has evolved! Usually this statement does not add real value to any conversation as, historically it rarely translates to any clarity. It has simply been a phrase that tends to end up finally adding maybe three new expectations, two new dashboards, and let’s say one new adjective to the title.

But this time, it feels less like a slogan. Why?

With the surge of AI use globally, the marketing role has been forced to evolve by economics, technology, and customer expectations changing simultaneously.

As AI, generative AI and in any other format, has started shaping how we think, decide, analyse, segment customers, and as quietly observed across office cubicles, at times to even draft simple email responses that fill our evenings. Which shows us that this evolution has moved from theory to daily practice. For once, “evolved” may not mean “rebranded”, rather, it may actually mean redefined. Boardrooms across markets, the question is not whether marketing can drive real growth, rather how can it ensure, it governs it.

Advt

It is safe to say that the role of CMO has evolved from, being in charge of brand expression to finally being seen as a crucial structural fit with decision making and accountability in modern enterprise leadership. It has shifted gears into being accountable for capital allocation, taking complete ownership of P&L, customer lifetime value across technologies, and sustainability integration. At the same time, they are responsible for coordinating profitable growth while working with diverse professionals across time zones.

When a global organisation like Unilever makes use of AI-enabled content systems across markets., it does so not just within a strictly regulated brand architecture but also with precision and efficiency-driven purpose. The result, speed-to-market improves. All the while, with the return on marketing expenditure being effectively stronger and more ROI-driven. This is where innovation must operate. That is, in a disciplined and clearly defined structured manner. Because this is exactly where management is not impaired by scale and is focused on customers, stakeholders and organisational goals while ensuring sustainability and profitability by driving value to its customers.

The markets today are extremely sensitive while being highly competitive. We are in the Gen Z era where transactions through offers or freebies do not guarantee loyalty. Memorable experiences drives this cohort of users and that too effortlessly. Singapore Airlines provides yet another outstanding example on these lines, when it comes to lifecycle economics research. The KrisFlyer ecosystem is by far more than just a gamification or a loyalty rewards program. It is a beautifully designed value engine that is comprised of data. By precisely perfecting this strategy, retention, revenue, and premium positioning on international routes are achieved. In today’s corporate world, this is exactly how marketing needs to function. The customer relationship management (CRM) system framework, coupled with customer-centric service design and delivery all working in sync with the brand purely driven by a value-centric customer focused business strategy.

Advt

Historically, the brands that have thrived during difficult global conditions are the ones that have always focused on delivering exceptional brand value irrespective of the surrounding conditions. The win for organisations here is the fact that, the marketing investments in all of these circumstances has a clearly defined and quantifiable impact on both, the P&L performance and from a global standpoint.

LEGO’s digital integration comes to mind when we look at marketing from an innovative perspective. In fact, this when looked as a case study is of great learning for marketers globally. LEGO, by way of their minute attention to detail have for decades showcased how innovation empowers customer engagement through comprehensive ecosystems all the while maintaining the emotional core from the brand’s perspective. They have designed and delivered exemplary marketing strategies with data-driven tools and customer driven community platforms. At the same time, they have ensured that this growth is carefully controlled to preserve history while also improving relevance to ensure they adapt to constantly changing customer preferences. In other words, it’s not always about technology adoption. At times, what is necessary is organisational patience.

Advt

In the present climate, we need to ensure that emerging technologies are integrated not because it's trendy and everybody is using it, but because it could truly offer lasting value to both customers and organisations.

Nestlé's continuing investments in understanding their customers better, to deliver more customised digital commerce, and analytics across markets is also very interesting. They have time and again shown how customer connection, scaling efficiency and portfolio stewardship can thrive together. Here, AI not only enhances targeting, but more importantly governance facilitates what we can observe as real-time consumer engagement. All the while maintaining equity across demographics.

Advt

The Changi Airport in Singapore for me is one of the most ideal examples of how experience architecture is seen as a holistic company structure. Where AI seamlessly makes customer experiences exceptional and that too without the customers even realising it. It ensures outstanding user service consistently. It is a perfect combination of digital interfaces with operational precision, retail partnerships, and spatial design. It is a masterclass in how companies and brands can come together to establish enduring distinctiveness. This improves the brand's capacity to bring in revenue. Why? Due to system-wide execution. Here, the marketing leadership acts as an enterprise coordinator. A carefully constructed framework that systematically focuses on all stakeholders while providing exceptional value-add in the form of effortless interaction at all occasions for a broad consumer base. What is more interesting is Temasek's long-term investment approach. Value generation is backed by capital discipline, strict governance, and alignment with sustainability.

In my experience working across markets and ecosystems, a successful marketing strategy guarantees that the objective is always backed by discipline along with organically aligning financial stewardship.

Goal-oriented brand positioning may be combined with advanced consumer analytics and e commerce integration, as seen by L'Oréal's digital growth across European countries. This is a perfect fit for digital technology in marketing since the complex data here inspires innovation instead of restricting it.

Another example of how volume built on infrastructure and analytics offers significant advantages to both stakeholders and end users is Reliance Retail's omnichannel infrastructure. While marketing spending is in line with overall economics instead of individual campaign data, both physical and digital channels support each other. Tata Consumer Products is a further instance of how marketing ROI accountability and portfolio management are combined into one focus. They keep underlining and reinforcing their belief that capital efficiency and marketing a brand are complementary.

The goal is elevated even more by sustainability. Whether it's consumption or sustainable development. At the same time, it is interesting to note that sustainability is no longer a communications decision. When integrated into the enterprise the right way and for all the right reasons, it helps to lower the overheads in the long run, meet the exceptional standards set by the investors and stakeholders and truly emerges as a world class organisation. WWF has demonstrated this through its business outreach programs. They continually show how environmental commitments are becoming increasingly woven into corporate structures rather than being presented as separate stories. The value they have placed on climate mitigation, planning, design, execution and monitoring can be clearly seen to be in sync with their investor expectations, risk management, and of course, by way of their supply chain transparency. Their real-time environmentally friendly initiatives are a true masterclass, providing the ideal example of how a responsible organisation must operate on such a large scale in the modern era.

Exceptional brands are truly nurtured under the right marketing strategy. The hurdle which organisations today are facing is with regards to adoption of governance and not with regards to technology integrated marketing. Marketing today is no longer about scale. It is about pursuing a clear, specific and measurable goal as a team, focused on your business architecture.

The customer journey is now more than just an idea. Nowadays, capital deployment is influenced by it. AI enhances segmentation accuracy and decision speed. CRM systems are evolving into great strategic tools. The fundamental idea is to automate less complicated procedures rather than replace human abilities so that people may be trained and focused on more crucial client engagement, interactions, and more personalised product and service delivery. AI must be used with the specific goal of helping people in managing more complicated human behaviours on a personal level while automating jobs that can routinely free us up for such crucial roles.

At the same time it is clear that value propositions are now including sustainability, and this is achieved with board-level monitoring. Budget allocation is based on lifetime value instead of just being based on platform or network design. One thing remains evident. As platforms grow, the brand's DNA must be protected. This is particularly significant because today’s present customer demographic is extremely diverse, ranging from Gen Z to millennials as well as beyond. All of this is taking place as gamification, loyalty, and recommendations are continually tested at each step.

Technological or digital skills, practical rather than theoretical know-how of governance, ethical transparency and owning your P&L are no longer additional skill sets for a CMO. They have become basic requirements. Great marketers today no longer speak of speed as an effective marketing expertise. What is needed instead is the ability to develop sustainable processes that blend human insight with technology, innovation and the responsibility of disciplined capital management.

The question we should ask is not whether we are over-investing in emerging or marketing technology today. Rather, are we under investing in governance capability?

The future of marketing leadership will be defined by capital intelligence, not creativity alone. Leadership is growth architecture.

By ,

ETBrandEquity

Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals.

Subscribe to Newsletter to get latest insights & analysis in your inbox.

All about ETBrandEquity industry right on your smartphone!

Download the ETBrandEquity App and get the Realtime updates and Save your favourite articles.