Title: Air France-KLM to take control of SAS Scandinavian Airlines
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/air-france-klm-sas-scandinavian-airlines-ownership/
--------------------------------------------------

Air France-KLM to take control of SAS Scandinavian Airlines

July 04, 2025

Air France-KLM to take control of SAS Scandinavian Airlines

The cards we feature here are from partners who compensate us when you are approved through our site, and this may impact how or where these products appear. We don’t cover all available credit cards, but our analysis, reviews, and opinions are entirely from our editorial team. Terms apply to the offers listed on this page. Please view our advertising policy and product review methodology for more information.

Air France-KLM is making good on its option to take control of SAS Scandinavian Airlines after first investing in the carrier last year.

Under a deal unveiled Friday, the Paris-based airline group will increase its ownership stake in SAS to 60.5% by the end of 2026, up from 19.9% today. That would give Air France-KLM majority control of the Scandinavian airline and a dominant position in the Europe's Nordic region.

"We are excited by the prospect of fully welcoming SAS into the Air France-KLM family," said Ben Smith, CEO of Air France-KLM, in a statement. "This operation would benefit our customers and all Scandinavians who would enjoy enhanced connectivity, as well as the SAS teams whose dedication has been key to restore their airline to its rightful place."

The more you know: The best time to book flights for the cheapest airfare

SAS is one of several carriers at the center of European airlines' latest consolidation spree. Air France-KLM's initial investment in 2024 saw the Scandinavian airline shift allegiance to the SkyTeam Alliance from Star Alliance, and forge new partnerships with the likes of Delta Air Lines. Italy's ITA Airways, Portugal's TAP Air Portugal and Spain's Air Europa are also among takeover targets with the Lufthansa Group acquiring ITA earlier this year, and TAP and Air Europa still in negotiations with suitors.

The net result is a shifting map of airline partnerships, including SAS's shift to SkyTeam and ITA's pending move to Star. International Airlines Group (IAG), parent company of British Airways and Iberia, is reportedly in close talks to acquire TAP, which would be a gain for the Oneworld alliance at the expense of Star.

Since shifting into Air France-KLM's orbit in 2024, SAS has expanded its connections with the group and other SkyTeam members. The airline has added nonstops from its main hub at Copenhagen Airport (CPH) to Delta's New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) hubs, and Korean Air's Seoul Incheon Airport (ICN) hub, schedule data from aviation analytics firm Cirium shows.

Air France-KLM executives have said that SAS will eventually join the group's transatlantic join venture with Delta and Virgin Atlantic Airways.

The investment is SAS also adds a third major European hub — Copenhagen — to Air France-KLM's network. Its main hubs, Amsterdam Schiphol Airport (AMS) for KLM and Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) for Air France, face various growth constraints. The Dutch government is actively working to restrict flights at Schiphol, while industrial actions and other limits challenge operations Charles de Gaulle. Copenhagen, according to airport authorities, has room to grow.

SAS also has large bases at the Oslo Airport (OSL) and Stockholm's Arlanda Airport (ARN).

Air France-KLM will increase its stake in SAS by buying out fellow investors Castlelake and Lind Invest. The deal is expected to close in the second half of 2026 pending regulatory approval.