Title: I shopped at Urban Revivo, Asia's answer to Zara. I'm a convert, but experts say Zara has nothing to worry about — yet.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/urban-revivo-convert-but-experts-say-zara-shouldnt-worry-2024-7
--------------------------------------------------

Urban Revivo is quickly emerging as a rival to Zara in the Asian fashion market, with competitive prices, similar store aesthetics, and a large selection of clothing items.

The fast-fashion brand, founded in 2006, has more than 300 outlets in mainland China and Southeast Asia.

But it now plans to expand its business to cities like New York and London.

Meanwhile, Urban Revivo's competition — the Spanish fast-fashion powerhouse Zara — is weighed down by boycotts over the Israel-Gaza war, impacting its reputation.

I checked out the two brands' outlets in Singapore's Jewel Changi Airport and put together basic outfits in each store. Here's my review.

Urban Revivo's fits felt way better than Zara's

I wear US size 6, but I found it difficult to find pieces that fit me properly in Zara.

I tried on four basic white tops, but some were too loose around the armholes, while others were too tight around the waist.

I tried on a couple of pairs of jeans, too, but was again faced with the same issue.

I finally settled on a no-frills white tank ($18.50), a beige knit cardigan ($49), and the straight-leg jeans ($45.90). I added a basic white handbag ($56.60), bringing the total to $170.

In contrast, the first thing I noticed about Urban Revivo's offerings was the quality of the pieces. They felt sturdier than the clothes at Zara.

The first tank top I put on fit me like a glove, as did the first pair of jeans I tried.

My picks included a black-outlined white tank top ($10), a cropped black cardigan ($41.60), a pair of dark wash jeans ($41.60), and a sparkly black handbag ($57.90), for a total of $151.10.

However, one drawback for Urban Revivo was the range of sizes available in the store. The largest jeans size I saw was a US size 8, whereas, in Zara, the range went up to size 14.

As the name suggests, Urban Revivo's pieces were more street-style than Zara's. Most pieces had a neutral color scheme compared to Zara's more colorful offerings.

The Urban Revivo store experience rivals Zara

The two stores have similar aesthetics, with clean white interiors.

Zara's store was largely open concept — a rectangular-shaped floor plan with most products hugging the walls.

It was also very brightly lit. The store design worked fine, but it wasn't anything spectacular.

In contrast, Urban Revivo felt like it had intentionally curated its space with a flow in mind. The products were displayed in aisles, prompting shoppers to follow a proposed pathway.

The store also had arches, adding visual interest to the outlet's design.

Unlike Zara's bright lights, Urban Revivo was lit more dimly, creating a more relaxed environment.

Mário Braz de Matos, the cofounder of Flying Fish Lab, a branding consultancy agency in Singapore, told BI that Urban Revivo invests "far more than any other fast fashion brand in the shopping experience," something other brands like Zara, H&M and Uniqlo are focusing less on.

But Zara doesn't have to worry just yet, experts say

While I thought that Urban Revivo was a strong alternative to Zara, experts told BI it doesn't pose a major threat yet.

For one, they say the two brands cater to different target demographics.

"The UR (Urban Revivo) styles are mostly cute and youthful, while Zara offers more sophisticated clothing, most likely for working," said Marcie Cooperman, a professor from the fashion marketing department of Parsons School of Design.

Gregory Angel, an assistant professor of fashion at Parsons, echoed Cooperman's sentiments.

"Urban Revivo has a variety of products, but there is a 'sophomoric' feel to it," Angel said.

And while one might think the Gaza boycott would have people searching for a Zara alternative, the experts are skeptical that political activism will have a lasting impact on the Spanish brand's business.

"Customers do not have the courage of their convictions for very long," Cooperman said.

"If they even have a conviction to boycott a brand, they will forget about it as soon as they see something cute on its website," she added.

They also say that it's too early to determine if Urban Revivo will be a true threat to Zara.

"Fighting the incumbents is always an uphill battle," Braz de Matos of Flying Fish Lab said.

"For now, Urban Revivo is too small outside China to be felt as a threat to Zara. They can compete with Zara in every market where they are present but may not be seen as a menace," he added.

Angel said: "Will it be a competitor or a little sister? The market has yet to find out."

Richard Tang, CEO of international business at Fashion Momentum Group, Urban Revivo's parent company, said that his firm did identify Zara as a primary competitor.

Tang added that while both companies have a broad consumer base, Urban Revivo is gunning for customers who are "quality-driven elites, white-collar professionals, and the new generation of fashion pioneers."

"Urban Revivo has evolved, particularly with its global expansion, into its own distinct market position, despite price and product range similarities to Zara," Tang told Business Insider.

"This strategy is not only about competing with Zara but also about creating a distinct brand image and influence in the foreign market," Tang said.

Representatives for Zara did not respond to a request for comment from BI.