Title: Air India boosts connectivity across 70 destinations in Asia, signs interline pact with Singapore Airlines subsidiary Scoot
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/air-india-boosts-connectivity-across-70-destinations-across-asia-signs-interline-pact-with-singapore-airlines-subsidiary-scoot/articleshow/125905810.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Air India has partnered with Scoot, Singapore Airlines' low-cost arm. This collaboration grants Air India passengers access to over 70 destinations across Southeast Asia, North Asia, and Australia via Singapore. New unique destinations are now reachable, including places in Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. Passengers can enjoy seamless transfers at Singapore Changi Airport.

Tata-owned Air India on Thursday announced its unilateral interline partnership with Scoot, the low-cost subsidiary of Singapore Airlines (SIA), under which its guests will get access to most of Scoot’s network with over 70 destinations across 18 countries across Southeast Asia, North Asia and Australia via Singapore.

Under the interline partnership, the domestic carrier will now provide connectivity to the following unique destinations that were previously not covered by any of the airline’s other existing partnerships: Macau SAR in China; Padang and Labuan Bajo in Indonesia; Kota Kinabalu, Kuching, Langkawi, Ipoh, Kuantan, Miri, Sibu, Malacca and Kota Bharu in Malaysia; Davao and Iloilo City in the Philippines, Koh Samui, Chiang Rai and Chiang Mai in Thailand; and Nha Trang and Phu Quoc in Vietnam.

Also read: IndiGo flight status today: Check IndiGo cancelled flights at major Indian airports on December 11

From now on, Air India passengers can fly non-stop from Delhi, Mumbai or Chennai to Singapore and take onward journeys with Scoot to these destinations in addition to many other points across the Scoot network.

Both the airlines have implemented Inter-Airline Through Check-In (IATCI), enabling passengers booked on a single ticket to receive boarding passes for both, Air India and Scoot flights, at the point of origin. This would allow a smooth transfer experience at Singapore Changi Airport.

Live Events

“Asia Pacific remains the world’s fastest-growing region for aviation, with intra-regional air travel demand surging at significant rates,” Nipun Aggarwal, Chief Commercial Officer, Air India said. “Our new interline partnership with Scoot taps into that momentum, meeting the rising Indian traveller appetite for seamless access to far-flung corners of the continent - from Malaysia’s rainforests to Vietnam’s beaches and Indonesia’s emerging cities.”

On the partnership, Calvin Chan, Chief Commercial Officer, Scoot, said, “This partnership marks an important step in broadening travel options for customers in India to discover unique destinations across Scoot’s extensive network via Singapore. We look forward to welcoming Air India customers onboard and connecting them to new experiences with Scoot.”

Currently, Air India operates 49x weekly flights from India to Singapore, including thrice daily flights from Delhi, twice daily flights from Mumbai, and twice daily flights from Chennai. Air India and Singapore Airlines are codeshare partners, i.e. they provide seamless connectivity to their common guests to over 60 destinations worldwide.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless