Title: Alaska Airlines Will Open Lounges In Honolulu, San Diego, and A New Flagship Seattle Location
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/alaska-airlines-will-open-lounges-in-honolulu-san-diego-and-a-new-flagship-seattle-location/
--------------------------------------------------

1.7K


The Alaska Air Group made several announcements today. Earlier, I wrote about Hawaiian Airlines adding flights to Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) and Tokyo Narita International Airport (NRT) in 2025. In addition to these nonstop international flights (the first of 12 planned to launch by 2030), Alaska will open several new lounges at Honolulu’s Daniel K. Inouye International Airport (HNL), San Diego International Airport (SAN), and a flagship location in Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) to accommodate these new flights.

Alaska Airlines currently operates lounges at the following airports:

Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport (ANC)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

Portland International Airport (PDX) (two locations)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO)

Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) (three locations)

The lounges at Honolulu and San Diego align well with the Hawaiian merger and Alaska’s own growth. The promised “flagship” lounge in Seattle is set for 2027, but no details have been released on whether this will be in addition to the three lounges currently operated there or if it will take the place of one.

In June, Alaska Airlines began operating in the new Harvey Milk Terminal 1 at San Francisco International Airport (SFO). The new space follows a two-year relocation project from Terminal 2 and offers travelers an enhanced guest experience when they’re flying San Francisco’s second largest carrier. A new lounge was being completed during the move and that new space just opened in July.

Alaska has upped its lounge game and along with that the fees to access these lounges have increased. The membership fees for both its own lounges as well as the premium Lounge+ membership that gives members access to around 90 partner lounges will both see prices go up.

Anthony’s Take: Details are limited around Alaska’s lounge expansion plans. It’s unknown if the flagship lounge will be like its others or will serve as a lounge only for premium international passengers similar to the American Flagship Lounges, Delta One® Lounges, and United Polaris® Lounges.

(Image Credits: Alaska Airlines.)
