Title: Singapore Changi Airport’s Butterfly Garden
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2023/08/16/singapore-changi-airports-butterfly-garden/
--------------------------------------------------

3.9K

One thing we were looking forward to during our trip to Southeast Asia was getting to explore Changi Airport. We planned a 25-hour layover so we could see as much as possible. Here are some of the things we did during our layover:

We explored the Jewel Shopping Mall, including the rain vortex.

We stayed at the Crowne Plaza Changi Airport.

Sharon went down the airport slide (which is the longest slide in Singapore)

At this point, we had seen everything we could on the pre-security side. We checked in for our flight, where the Singapore Airlines agent tagged our bags all the way to Orlando. We then headed through security and into the terminal.

We had already visited the SilverKris lounge on our arriving flight, so we didn’t need to spend time sitting there again. There were other things at the airport we wanted to see. The butterfly garden in Terminal 3 was at the top of the list.

Entrance to the butterfly garden is free, but since it’s on the airside you can only visit if you’re flying through Changi Airport. The garden is located on levels 2 and 3 of Terminal 3 and is open 24 hours. You can travel between Terminals 1, 2 and 3 on the Skytrain, which is located in the secure area.

The butterfly garden at Changi Airport in Singapore is a breathtaking sight to behold. It’s a two-floor space with entrances on both levels. There’s even a waterfall. As you walk through the garden, you will be surrounded by hundreds of colorful butterflies fluttering around you.

There are several places where they place sweet fruits and you can get a closer view of the butterflies.

While the butterflies are beautiful, please do not try to touch them.

We spent about 15 minutes looking around the butterfly garden but how long you stay depends on your interest in butterflies. Many educational signs throughout the space explain butterflies and their habitat.

Whether you’re a nature lover or just looking for a unique experience, the butterfly garden at Changi Airport is not to be missed.

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!