Title: North Korea Trash Balloons Force Airport to Close
Source: Newsweek
URL: https://www.newsweek.com/north-korea-trash-balloons-close-seoul-airport-1917464
--------------------------------------------------

All domestic and international flights at South Korea's Incheon International Airport faced severe delays after trash-filled balloons launched by North Korea caused significant disruption.

The latest string of balloons launched by North Korea triggered travel chaos as flights came to a halt. Landings and departures were delayed by roughly three hours after North Korea launched balloons filled with refuse.

The balloons were seen in and around the airport boundaries, and one balloon landed on the tarmac near terminal 2.

Seoul officials said the balloons were carrying paper waste that posed no safety risk to the public.

Inbound and outbound flights were suspended between 1:46am to 4:43am local time, according to an Incheon International Airport official.

'At around 4:08am, it was confirmed that a trash-carrying balloon had fallen near Gate 248 of T2, and military authorities collected it. The airport is operating as normal since 4:44 am,' South Korean officials said

Pyongyang has launched thousands of balloons carrying trash in retaliation for propaganda balloons launched by South Korea, which criticize Kim Jon Un's leadership.

South Korea's military on Wednesday said about 100 balloons had fallen to the ground between Tuesday and Wednesday, mostly in the capital, Seoul, and the surrounding Gyeonggi province. Most carried just scraps of paper.

However, some North Korean balloons have been filled with worn-out clothing and soil containing traces of human feces, South Korea has said.

Earlier this month Pyongyang vowed to continue sending trash balloons over the border to South Korea if anti-North Korea leaflets were flown from the South.

Dozens of balloons with trash attached were discovered in the region as tensions remain high between both countries.

Balloon tactics have come to the forefront in the frosty relationship between the rivals since last month when the North sent hundreds of balloons south, most filled with garbage and feces in what it sarcastically referred to as "gifts" to the South Korean people.

South Korea threatened on Tuesday to restart anti-Pyongyang propaganda broadcasts near the border in the latest chapter of Cold War-style campaigns between both countries

The balloons from South Korea which can cost up to $1,000 each, are filled with helium or hydrogen and contain about 1,500 leaflets, ready to be scattered across the North to encourage defectors to relocate.

Seoul was placed on alert after Incheon airport reopened as security officials detected a new North Korean missile launch.

The missile took off from an area near Pyongyang at about 5:30 am local time, Seoul's Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement.