Title: IHG grows voco hotels brand in South Korea
Source: Hospitality Net
URL: https://www.hospitalitynet.org/announcement/41010900.html
--------------------------------------------------

The 576-room property will be rebranded as voco - IHG's fastest growing premium brand - ahead of welcoming guests by the middle of this year. It will be IHG's second voco property in South Korea, following the successful brand debut of voco Seoul Gangnam in 2022.

Offering thoughtful, unstuffy and charming experiences inspired by the three voco brand hallmarks - 'come on in', 'me time', and 'voco life' - voco Seoul Myeongdong will follow many exciting openings for the upscale brand around the world, including voco Osaka Central, voco Ma Belle Danang, voco Xiong'An and voco Paris Porte De Clichy.

Situated at the heart of Seoul's vibrant district of Myeongdong, voco Seoul Myeongdong will attract both business and leisure travellers, who will savour its proximity to the business district and convenient access to bustling attractions such as Deoksugung Palace, City Hall, Myeongdong shopping street and Namdaemun Market.

Less than an hour's drive from Incheon International Airport, the hotel will feature an all-day dining restaurant, versatile meeting spaces of more than 140 square metres, an indoor swimming pool, fitness centre, business centre and an exclusive voco hotels lounge.

Since launching in 2018, voco has grown quickly around the world to reach 62 open hotels and 74 in the pipeline. It offers a premium experience to guests, combining the informality and charm of an individual hotel with the quality and reassurance of a respected global brand.

This signing of voco Seoul Myeongdong reinforces the brand's ambition of having 200 properties in leading urban and leisure locations by 2028. It continues to command high guest satisfaction scores thanks to its distinctive charming experiences.

IHG is growing its estate across South Korea, where it has nine open hotels across four brands - InterContinental Hotels & Resorts, Holiday Inn Hotels & Resorts, Holiday Inn Express and voco hotels - and three properties in its pipeline.