Title: Man charged with illegally exporting over 5,000 terrapins from Singapore to India
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/man-charged-export-5000-terrapins-singapore-india-4207996
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: A man was charged on Wednesday (Mar 20) with packing more than 5,000 terrapins into his suitcases and transporting them from Singapore to India.

Rafique Syed Hariza Ali Hussain, 40, was handed one charge each under the Wildlife Act and the Animals and Birds Act.

According to charge sheets, he allegedly exported 5,160 red-eared terrapins from Singapore's Changi Airport to India's Coimbatore International Airport in Tamil Nadu on Nov 7, 2023.

The terrapins, which are also known as red-eared sliders, are considered wildlife under Singapore's Wildlife Act. They were allegedly packed into Rafique's two personal bags.

Rafique's second charge accuses him of failing to take reasonable steps to ensure the terrapins were not suffering unnecessarily.

The Indian national and Singapore permanent resident allegedly packed and concealed the animals in his bags, which were not ventilated, subjecting them to unnecessary suffering.

According to a National Parks Board article about non-native wildlife in Singapore, red-eared sliders are native to North America.

They are the most popular turtles in the pet trade and one of the World's 100 Worst Invasive Alien Species, the article stated.

"These turtles are often purchased as juveniles and discarded by pet owners once they mature," the article continued, adding that they are a "significant threat to our native aquatic biodiversity".

Rafique was offered bail of S$35,000 and is set to return to court next month.

He said he could be bailed out by his Singaporean friend, or by his wife or daughter.

For exporting wildlife without written approval, he could be jailed for up to a year, fined up to S$10,000, or both.

As his charge is amalgamated or groups together all the terrapins involved, he can face up to double this punishment.

For failing to ensure that the terrapins were not suffering unnecessarily, he could be jailed for up to a year, fined up to S$10,000, or both.

As this charge is also amalgamated, he could face up to twice the penalties.