Title: Korean Air Upgrades Lounges, to Introduce Premium Economy
Source: Travelupdate.com
URL: https://travelupdate.com/korean-air-upgrades-lounges-to-introduce-premium-economy/
--------------------------------------------------

Korean Air is upgrading its airport lounges and introducing Premium Economy cabins. This is a part of its broader service enhancements, aligning with its new corporate identity and the upcoming merger with Asiana Airlines. These initiatives are designed to improve passenger experience. The lounges at Incheon, Los Angeles, and New York JFK will highlight their new identity.

New Lounges

Korean Air will expand and renovate its lounges at Incheon International Airport Terminal 2 to accommodate increased passenger traffic, particularly with Asiana Airlines relocating to the terminal. New “Prestige Class Garden Lounges” will be added in both east and west wings, expanding the lounge area by 2.5 times and doubling seating capacity. These upgrades will be phased in starting in August 2025. With the First Class and Prestige Class Lounges in the west wing reopening in April 2026, these will be welcome improvements. The new lounges will offer high-end amenities, including live kitchens, new beverages, and a signature noodle bar.

Upcoming Premium Economy Rollout

Korean Air will also retrofit 11 Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to include Premium Economy seating. The first aircraft will be ready by the second half of 2025, offering a three-class configuration: Prestige (Business), Premium Economy, and Economy. The retrofits will continue through 2026..

Other Changes After Merger with Asiana

The integration of Asiana Airlines has lead to a refreshed corporate identity. The merger will also include standardizing fleet configurations. The new Premium Economy will become a focal point for upgrading the passenger experience. Upcoming changes in their cabins will hopefully elevate Korean Air to compete with other Asian carriers. Korean Air first class is underwhelming, especially compared to the old Asiana First Class.