Title: Lounge Review: TGM Singapore Changi Airport (Terminal 2) – Semi-Buffet instead of Regular Lounge Access
Source: Theshutterwhale.com
URL: https://theshutterwhale.com/blog/2024/4/8/lounge-review-tgm-singapore-changi-airport-terminal-2-semi-buffet-instead-of-regular-lounge-access
--------------------------------------------------

Located in Terminal 2 of Singapore Changi Airport, TGM functions more like a restaurant than a traditional airport lounge. While the offerings have changed quite a bit over the years, eligible travellers can still enjoy a (free) meal using the right lounge membership passes (that they can get from credit cards).

Click HERE to find out more about TGM at Singapore Changi Airport!

TGM offers a breakfast (6:00 AM to 11:00 AM) and lunch/dinner semi-buffet experience (11:00 AM to 1:00 AM) for eligible travellers - each traveller admitted into TGM will be able to pick a choice of main and enjoy a range of other items from the buffet table. I got to TGM at approximately 11:30 AM with the Priority Pass membership that I got with my Citi Prestige Card. ICYMI, Priority Pass members can now use their lounge access allowance at selected restaurants in Singapore Changi Airport and TGM is just one of many (there is also Crystal Jade La Mian Xiao Long Bao in Terminal 1 if that tickles your fancy).

There were six main courses to choose from at TGM from the lunch and dinner menu:

Singapore Prawn Laksa

Korean Grilled Pork Jowl served withSsamjang Sauce, Lettuce, Kimchi & Pearl Rice

Sundubu Jjigae with Pork Shabu & Cabbage served with Seaweed & Pearl Rice

Teriyaki Chicken served with Pickles & Pearl Rice

Salmon Butteryaki served with Pickles & Pearl Rice

Korean Chap Chae (Vegetarian)

I went with the Sundubu Jjigae with Pork Shabu which was pretty delicious - obviously, do not expect anything to blow your mind but it had a generous number of pork shabu slices and the broth was tasty enough to make me pick it over the usual airport lounge laksa.

Apart from the main course, I also took the opportunity to check out the buffet spread that diners can help themselves to - there was a small selection of salads, fried food (gyoza and spring rolls), as well as miso soup during my visit. There were also some maki rolls which didn’t look too appealing to me but honestly, I think most people come here for their choice of main course before moving on to a real airport lounge to spend the rest of their time at.

If you do not have the right Priority Pass membership or any equivalent lounge access passes, you can still visit TGM as a paying guest - each diner is charged S$28++ and it comes with the same inclusions. Airport staff working airside can also enjoy preferential rates at TGM if they show their staff pass but otherwise, I am not sure whether the full price of S$28++ is worth paying since there are plenty of other options in Changi Airport.

As mentioned earlier, TGM Is not a typical airport lounge where you can enjoy free-flowing wines or cocktails at. The semi-buffet does come with some beverages but expect to find only basic coffee (from a coffee machine) and tea, as well as juices (from concentrate) on the table.

Beer is available at TGM but it is priced at S$10++ per glass - not a terrible price (if it is a 500ml pint but I can’t be sure how many ml it is) but obviously, if you have unlimited airport lounge access with the right credit cards, you are better off just walking to one of the lounges nearby for a drink (and a much more conducive environment to wait for your flight).

If you are still feeling peckish after your main course, there are some cakes and fruits that you can help yourself to - I did not really bother with them as they looked rather uninspiring and as I have mentioned earlier, you can always walk over to the SilverKris Lounge (if you are flying in Business, or have PPS Club status), or one of the other airport lounges like the DNATA or SATS Lounges which are just around the corner).

As TGM is more of a restaurant than anything else, this ‘airport lounge’ does not come with restrooms, but diners are welcome to use the public ones outside and re-enter the restaurant whenever they require. There are no time restrictions as far as I know (unlike the Plaza Premium Lounge in Terminal 1) so you can essentially stay on after your meal to help yourself to the small buffet spread but I highly recommend checking out another airport lounge instead. I do miss the corporate bento sets that TGM used to offer before the global pandemic but thankfully, the food quality is still decent and I will definitely be back again if I do not have access to the SilverKris Lounge or if I want something a little bit more substantial.