Title: The El Paso No-Fly Debacle Is Just the Beginning of a Drone Defense Mess
Source: Wired
URL: https://www.wired.com/story/the-el-paso-no-fly-debacle-is-just-the-beginning-of-the-drone-defense-mess/
--------------------------------------------------

A shocking but ultimately brief airspace closure over El Paso, Texas, and parts of New Mexico last week is stoking unease among pilots and the broader public about the status of United States anti-drone defenses.

As low-cost UAV equipment proliferates around the world, analysts have repeatedly warned that destructive attacks perpetrated using drones are inevitable. It is challenging to develop nimble and safe countermeasures, though, given that things like jamming or attempting to shoot down a drone are difficult—or even impossible—to carry out safely in populated areas, much less densely populated cities.

In the case of the El Paso incident, the Federal Aviation Administration originally set the airspace closure to last 10 days, but ultimately lifted it after eight hours. The Trump administration initially said the move was related to possible incursion of Mexican drug cartel drones, but the New York Times and others reported that it came from FAA concerns that Customs and Border Protection officials were using a Pentagon-provided anti-drone laser weapon in the area despite questions about potential dangers to civilian aircraft.

CBP reportedly used the laser defense tool to shoot down what turned out to be a party balloon.

“The FAA likely did a very intelligent thing by issuing the Temporary Flight Restriction,” says Tarah Wheeler, chief security officer of the cybersecurity consultancy TPO Group. “The initial 10-day length of the TFR makes it seem like the FAA wasn’t provided with information on how long the laser would be in use. The FAA doesn’t want to close down airspace longer than they have to.”

The FAA, Department of Defense, and Department of Homeland Security did not respond to WIRED's requests for comment.

A White House official told The Hill on Thursday that an FAA administrator made the decision to close the airspace without notifying the White House, the Pentagon, or DHS.

“The Department of War and the Department of Transportation having been working together for months regarding drone incursion operations. Last night’s action to disable the cartel drones was not a spontaneous action,” the official told The Hill in a statement. “At no point in the process of disabling these cartel drones were civilian aircraft in danger as a result of the methods used by DOW to disable the drones.”

Also on Thursday, US representatives Veronica Escobar of Texas and Gabe Vasquez of New Mexico, along with New Mexico senators Martin Heinrich and Ben Ray Luján, wrote to DHS secretary Kristi Noem, defense secretary Pete Hegseth, and transportation secretary Sean Duffy to request a classified briefing on the incident.

The lawmakers wrote that they want representatives from each agency “to speak to the roles they played, acknowledge where the failed communication occurred, and share the steps you are taking to ensure a future crisis of this nature will not reoccur.”

The laser tool used in the situation was a “LOCUST” anti-drone weapon system made by the defense company AeroVironment (AV), according to a Reuters report. The LOCUST system is a 20-kilowatt laser directed energy weapon, a relatively low-power tool made to be used to take out small drones. (AV acquired LOCUST creator BlueHalo in November 2024.)

“The recent proliferation of inexpensive and readily available drones has shifted the focus to short-range air defense, where lasers and high-powered microwaves offer a potentially game-changing advantage,” an Army report on a laser weapons test said in June.

AV delivered two sets of LOCUST units to the US Army in September and December as part of the Army Multi-Purpose High Energy Laser (AMP-HEL) prototyping project—one of a few “Directed Energy Efforts” that the Army's Directed Energy Prototyping Office undertook in 2025.

Read More

DHS Plans Experiment Running ‘Reconnaissance’ Drones Along the US-Canada Border

Autonomous drones and ground vehicles will stream “battlefield intelligence” over 5G along the US-Canada border in a bilateral DHS experiment this fall.

Do City Delivery Drones Make Sense? No One Knows, but They're Flying Over NYC

One of the country’s busiest airspaces has a new kind of flying machine—maybe temporarily.

Iran Is Using Tiny ‘Mosquito’ Boats to Shut Down the Strait of Hormuz

Iran’s traditional naval fleet has been almost completely destroyed by US-Israeli raids. But Iran’s military has put a fleet of small vessels on the water that is crippling every passageway.

Emergency First Responders Say Waymos Are Getting Worse

“I believe the technology was deployed too quickly in too vast amounts, with hundreds of vehicles, when it wasn’t really ready,” one police official told federal regulators last month.

California Engineer Identified in Suspected Shooting at White House Correspondents’ Dinner

A 31-year-old engineer and self-described indie game developer is suspected of firing shots at the annual event attended by President Donald Trump, high-profile media figures, and US government officials.

The Latest Push to Extend Key US Spy Powers Is Still a Mess

A US surveillance program that lets the FBI view Americans’ communications without a warrant is up for renewal. A new bill aims to address mounting lawmaker concerns—with smoke and mirrors.

Palantir Employees Are Starting to Wonder if They’re the Bad Guys

Interviews with current and former Palantir employees, along with internal Slack messages obtained by WIRED, suggest a workforce in turmoil.

DHS Demanded Google Surrender Data on Canadian’s Activity, Location Over Anti-ICE Posts

Using a 1930s trade law, Homeland Security targeted the man—who hasn’t entered the US in more than a decade—following posts on X condemning the killings of Renee Good and Alex Pretti.

US Special Forces Soldier Arrested for Polymarket Bets on Maduro Raid

The master sergeant allegedly used classified intel to profit on the capture of Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro, marking the first US arrest for insider trading on a prediction market.

Waymo Is Trying to Crack Down on Solo Kids in Driverless Cars

As adult riders report new age-verification checks, the self-driving car company says it’s continuing to “refine” its system in places where kids aren’t allowed to ride alone.

An Engineer’s Post Protesting Laptop Surveillance Is Going Viral Inside Meta

Meta employees in the US and UK are organizing against corporate software that tracks workers’ keystrokes and mouse activity.

Papa Johns Is Getting Into Drone Delivery—but Not for Pizza

A new collaboration with Alphabet’s Wing will only deliver sandwiches. It demonstrates the tricky parts of taking to the sky.