Title: First look at new plane launching world’s longest flight to NYC next year — with a route that lasts 22 hours
Source: New York Post
URL: https://nypost.com/2026/04/13/lifestyle/qantas-debuts-new-plane-to-fly-22-hours-nonstop-to-nyc-uk/
--------------------------------------------------

Aussies will soon have a new way to get to New York — and in no time flat.

Launching in luxury, the world’s first-ever aircraft to travel from Sydney, Australia, to New York City is poised to make its inaugural flight test in the coming days, announced Qantas Airways on Sunday of its posh “Project Sunrise” airplanes. The fleet of upscale Airbus A350s are equipped to take jet-setters on the uninterrupted 22-hour, 10,000-mile trip.

The Project Sunrise name is a nod to Qantas’ historic “Double Sunrise” endurance flights during World War II, which remained airborne long enough to see two sunrises.

“The first Airbus A350-1000ULR rolled out of the hangar in Toulouse this week, with its Rolls-Royce Trent XWB engines fitted and ready to start final ground checks and a two-month flight testing campaign,” the company captioned viral Instagram footage of the pioneering plane.

“From next year, these aircrafts will carry our customers nonstop from Sydney to London and New York for the first time ever, reducing flying time by up to four hours,” Qantas continued, teasing that “its first test flight is just around the corner.”

If successful, its takeoff will be a turning point in air travel.

Project Sunrise is expected to unseat Xiamen Air’s 19-hour, 20-minute flight from NYC’s John F. Kennedy International Airport to Fuzhou Changle International Airport in southern China as the world’s longest nonstop flight. The bragging rights were formerly held by Singapore Airlines, which offers an 18-hour, 45-minute trek from JFK to Singapore Changi Airport.

Qantas explained that its 22-hour flight from the east coast of Australia to the east coast of America, as well as to London, is made possible by an additional 20,000-liter, or approximately 5,238-gallon, rear-center fuel tank and enhanced systems, per a recent release, which noted that the aircraft boasts illustrious elements “designed around passenger comfort and wellbeing for ultra-long-haul operations.”

With seating for 238 passengers, the Project Sunrise ergonomically constructed cabin offers six sumptuous first class suites, 52 business class suites, 40 premium economy seats and 140 economy accommodations.

It also features a “Wellbeing Zone,” located between Economy and Premium Economy cabins, which will be a common area for all passengers to mix, mingle and help themselves to a selection of refreshments.

Check out the plushy perks afforded to Project Sunrise passengers in each class.

First class

The A350 will feature six spacious, enclosed “First” suites, each designed using the latest in textile innovations and ergonomic design to create the ultimate luxury travel experience. The suites feature a flat bed and separate reclining armchair, with a large flexible work and dining space for one or two people. A full-length wardrobe can also be found in each suite, along with several areas for personal storage.

First class features:

USB-A and C, AC and wireless charging outlets

Touchscreen suite controller

An enclosed suite with 57-inch (1.4m) high walls and a sliding door

Full-length wardrobe and multiple personal storage areas

32-inch entertainment touchscreen with Bluetooth audio connectivity (14-inch larger than our A380)

Flexible work, seating and dining space for two

80-inch (2m) long flat bed

Adjustable bed backrest for breakfast in bed

Customizable LED lighting

Separate 22-inch wide reclining armchair

Business

For the first time, Qantas Business suites will feature a sliding door for additional privacy, as well as an adjustable divider between the alternating center seats. Complete with a large dining table and work surface, increased storage options, the suite features innovative design and materials to deliver exceptional inflight comfort.

Business features:

18-inch entertainment touchscreen with Bluetooth audio connectivity

Cushioned leather ottoman that lifts for increased storage access

Sliding door into 42-inch wide suite with 47-inch high privacy wall

Architectural feature light

Personal storage compartment with mirror

USB-A and C, AC and wireless charging outlets

Additional cocktail and work surface

80-inch (2m) long and 25-inch wide flat bed

Generous 25-inch wide seat with lumbar support

Touchscreen suite controller

Separate upholstered glove box

Premium economy

13.3-inch entertainment touchscreen with Bluetooth audio connectivity

Three dedicated amenity and personal storage pockets

A spacious seat pitch at 40 inches

Calf rest which allows for full leg cradling

Two fast charging USB-C outlets for every passenger

8-inch winged privacy headrest that adjusts for maximum comfort

Economy