Title: We Tried 5 Viral Travel Essentials… 1 Was a Total Game Changer
Source: allears.net
URL: https://allears.net/2026/05/10/we-tried-5-viral-travel-essentials-1-was-a-total-game-changer/
--------------------------------------------------

Here at AllEars, we travel a lot. We’re constantly headed to the Disney Parks, cruises, and beyond!

We love testing travel gadgets to see if they’ll actually help your next vacation. We ordered five viral travel items from Amazon and put them to the test!

DISCLOSURE: This post may contain affiliate links, which means when you click a link and make a purchase, we receive a commission.

This Travel Humidifier is so handy!

This Travel Humidifier is a small humidifier that attaches to a water bottle. We took a water bottle and refilled it with sink water. Mist comes out and adds moisture to the air, so it’s great to cool down on hot days and prevent dryness when traveling. It’s super compact and portable for traveling. It also has rotating light colors that could be a fun night light in your hotel!

Check price on Amazon

This Smart Luggage Tag is like an AirTag, but cheaper!

This Smart Luggage Tag has a built-in location feature. It connects to the Find My iPhone app, beeps from the click of a button on your phone, and charges with a wireless charger. This luggage tag has a long battery life that lasted us 4 months on one charge!

The strap is also adjustable and easy to remove, plus, it didn’t get in the way in the overhead bin. It fit on our luggage securely, and we didn’t worry about it falling out as an AirTag could. This Smart Luggage Tag brought us so much peace of mind while flying!

Check price on Amazon

This MagicBand+ Charging Station is a lifesaver for Disney trips!

This MagicBand+ Charging Station charges up to four MagicBands at once. It was so convenient to bring one item to charge multiple MagicBands instead of everyone bringing their own charger. It’s great for families since you can charge MagicBands all in one place, and it only takes up one single outlet!

Check price on Amazon

This BAGSMART Travel Bag is so convenient!

This BAGSMART Travel Bag is a closet shelf and travel bag in one. It has three main compartments, a large zipper pocket, a small zipper pocket, and a six-way divider. We packed our things inside and compressed the hanger inside our suitcase like the Amazon listing suggested, which made unpacking a breeze!

The BAGSMART Travel Bag was so roomy, and we could easily fit all of the clothes we needed for a full week inside. Since it has two hooks, it’s pretty stable once you hang it. The durable fabric and strong hooks make us pretty sure that this will last for many more vacations!

Check price on Amazon

Sleep like a baby with this Pillow Speaker!

This Pillow Speaker is a portable Bluetooth speaker that’s designed to fit right under your pillow! It’s so easy to connect to your phone – turn the speaker on, and it quickly pops up for Bluetooth pairing. It was super lightweight and portable to fit into our suitcase.

The buttons are super handy to adjust the volume and skip forward or backward. This Pillow Speaker can get pretty loud! When it is not under a pillow, you can hear it very well. You can also hear pretty well if it’s near the edge of the pillow. You might want to play with it before getting ready for bed to see what the best volume setting is for you. The quietest setting was audible when holding it close to our face, but not through the pillow.

Check price on Amazon

Stay tuned to AllEars for more Disney merchandise updates and deals. We’ve got you covered!