Title: Denmark bans all civilian drone flights ahead of European summit
Source: BBC News
URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c708dzqvz1vo
--------------------------------------------------

Denmark has banned all civilian drone flights this week ahead of a European Union summit in Copenhagen, the country's transport minister said on Sunday.

The ministry said the decision was made in order to "simplify security work" for the police, and they could not accept "foreign drones creating uncertainty and disruption".

Denmark is one of several European countries that have reported "drone incidents" in recent weeks, with unidentified drones sighted above Danish military sites as recently as Saturday.

Defence ministers from 10 EU countries have agreed to create a "drone wall" in response to the sightings, and Nato says it has "enhanced vigilance" across the Baltic.

In their statement announcing the ban, the transport ministry said police were on "significantly increased alert" ahead of this week's summit and that they needed to "take care of Danes and our guests".

The ban will remain in place until 3 October, and violations could result in a fine or imprisonment for up to two years.

Sweden's Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson said his country would support Denmark with "military anti-drone capabilities" at the summit. He added that "powerful radar systems" had already been loaned to its Nordic neighbour.

France said it would be providing similar assistance to Denmark, using a specialist helicopter and a team of 35 experts.

Denmark currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the EU.

Unidentified drones have been reported in Denmark since 22 September, when sightings forced the closure of Copenhagen and Oslo airports.

Aalborg and Billund airports were also forced to suspend operations last week due to drone activity.

Danish investigators have not yet been able to identify those responsible for the flights, but the defence minister called it a "hybrid attack" that was part of a "systematic operation".

Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said that authorities were still investigating who was behind the incursions, and refused to rule out Russia.

Moscow says it "firmly rejects" any suggestion that it was involved in the Danish incidents.

Russia has been accused of conducting hybrid attacks in the past, and Europe has been on high alert after several Nato member states reported Russian incursions in their airspaces.

Estonia and Poland requested a consultation with other Nato members last week, after around 20 Russian drones crossed into Poland and Russian MiG-31 jets entered Estonian airspace in separate incidents.

In addition to the reports from Denmark, Norway and Romania also both marked separate drone incidents over the weekend.

Norwegian airport operator Avinor reported drone "activity" above Bronnoysund Airport on Sunday, and investigations are ongoing after "possible sightings of drones" near Norway's biggest military base on Saturday.