Title: oneworld® Alliance Opened a New Lounge in Amsterdam
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/oneworld-alliance-opened-a-new-lounge-in-amsterdam/
--------------------------------------------------

1.3K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Back in November, I wrote about the oneworld® Alliance opening its first lounge at Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN). The lounge opened in January. Now, oneworld® has opened its second location in the home of a former British Airways’ lounge at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS).

oneworld® lounges were first announced in 2019. The concept is to build lounges in airports with enough traffic to justify the space and expense, but without any one carrier having such a presence where they’ll have enough lounge capacity to serve all of the member airlines. We’ve seen this with Star Alliance lounges in Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) as well as SkyTeam lounges in Dubai International Airport (DXB) and Vancouver International Airport (YVR).

Gerhard Girkinger, Vice President of Customer Experience, Delivery, and Membership at oneworld®, said:

The launch of our first oneworld®-branded lounge in Europe, following on from our recent lounge opening at Incheon International Airport in Seoul, is a proud moment for everyone connected with the world’s leading airline alliance.”

The distinct entrance to the approximately 5,000-square-foot lounge is located in the non-Schengen departure area, which is about a 10-minute walk from the departure gates used by oneworld® airlines. Amsterdam has eight oneworld® Alliance member airlines flying around 30 flights daily. These include American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Iberia, Qatar Airways, Royal Air Maroc, and Royal Jordanian.

The oneworld® lounge at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS) will welcome:

First Class and Business Class passengers

Frequent flyers with oneworld® Emerald or Sapphire status

Anthony’s Take: I love the unique design of this lounge. Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS) is a fortress hub for KLM, so it’s great to see oneworld® establish a space for its guests to relax and work.

(Image Credits: oneworld®.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.