Title: Crazed passenger locks herself in plane bathroom, delays flight by 2 hours: wild video
Source: New York Post
URL: https://nypost.com/2025/02/07/lifestyle/crazed-passengers-locks-herself-in-plane-bathroom-delays-flight-by-2-hours-wild-video/
--------------------------------------------------

She was just plane rude.

A woman delayed a flight by nearly two hours after locking herself in the restroom during departure.

Singapore Airlines Flight 826 was taxiing for take-off on Thursday, Feb. 6, when the female flyer demanded that she use the bathroom.

When the flight attendant insisted she return to her seat, the woman forced her way past and barged into the lavatory, locking the door behind her.

The flight was scheduled to depart at 1:15 a.m., but lady locked in the lavatory forced pilots to delay taking to the skies.

The cabin crew tried to lure her out of the bathroom to no avail. She was heard kicking the door from the inside, apparently throwing a tantrum.

The pilots were forced to return to the gate at Singapore Changi Airport.

When the woman eventually emerged from the restroom, the other passengers began to argue with her, frustrated that their flight was delayed by a whopping one hour and 46 minutes.

Crew members were unfortunately tasked with trying to calm everyone down, but the yelling and screaming continued.

One infuriated passenger mentioned that they needed to get to work, and the woman reportedly responded: “How is that my business? Why don’t you get off the plane and take another flight then? You don’t have to take this plane if you’re so rich.”

The police eventually boarded the plane and led the woman and her companion away, eliciting applause and ending the drama. She was handed over to airport authorities.

The flight to Shanghai finally departed at 3:01 a.m., NeedToKnow reported.

“SIA believes that all our employees have a right to a safe and respectful workplace environment. We do not tolerate any form of unruly or abusive behavior, whether on the ground or in the air,” an airline spokesperson said.