Title: Jessica Hsuan Chats With Fans At Changi Airport, Impresses With Her Good Command Of English & Down-To-Earth Personality
Source: 8days.sg
URL: https://www.8days.sg/entertainment/local/jessica-hsuan-chats-fans-changi-airport-good-command-english-down-earth-845291
--------------------------------------------------

Hong Kong actress Jessica Hsuan, 54, was in town for the Star Awards last Sunday (Jul 6). She was named Best Actress for her performance in Kill Sera Sera, at the same time making history as the first overseas artiste to win a Star Award.

An IG video, posted by hktvbfan, showed Jessica chatting with fans at Changi Airport before getting on her flight home.

Jessica had no airs about her, making conversation as though they were longtime friends.

The video started with Jessica reflecting on her Star Awards experience, saying with a wide grin: "It was a very good night seeing the actors that I've worked with."

She mentioned that Tay Ping Hui, her co-star in 2011 Mediacorp drama Bountiful Blessings, reminded her that she was the one to hand him his first Star Award.

She was, however, unclear of the year, and when she said Ping Hui said it was 1999, she was met with a bunch of 'no-s' from her fans.

Jessica laughed, then jokingly remarked: "Dementia".

A quick search online proves that Ping Hui was actually right. He received his first acting award in 1999 for Best Supporting Actor for his work in Stepping Out.

She was also congratulated by a fan for being the first overseas star to win an award at the local ceremony. Jessica thanked the fan, then added: "I wasn't told [about it] until [Christopher Lee] told me."

She shared that Christopher didn't expect to win either. "When he saw me win, [he] thought 'that's it' because they don't usually give it to [actors from] the same drama," she said.

Jessica also expressed surprise at how he was given the Special Achievement Award, which she believed is the equivalent to the Lifetime Achievement Award at Hong Kong award ceremonies.

"In Hong Kong, the award is usually given to much older actors. That's why I was like 'huh?'. But here it's very different, they give it to the more experienced actors."

Netizens have since complimented her for how "chill" and "down-to-earth" she is. Some said they weren't surprised by how nice she is, given that she's long known to be friendly and humble.

Need we also mention that Jessica looked really good without any make up on?

Netizens also pointed out how good her command of English is. That shouldn't come as a surprise since Jessica attended Roedean School, a private boarding school in England. She later graduated from Imperial College London with a bachelor's degree in materials science and engineering.