Title: Adani plans ₹20,000 crore city-side push to diversify airports business
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/adani-plans-20000-crore-city-side-push-to-diversify-airports-business/articleshow/123149695.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Adani Airports plans to invest ₹20,000 crore ($2.4 billion) in phased city-side developments, with nearly 70% earmarked for Mumbai and Navi Mumbai airports. The goal is to boost non-aeronautical revenue to 70% by 2030, up from 50% now. The 240-acre Navi Mumbai airport project will feature hotels, offices, and retail, aiming to emulate global airport city models like Schiphol and Zurich.

Adani Airports will invest ₹20,000 crore ($2.4 billion) into multi-phase city-side developments, nearly 70% of which is allocated to the Mumbai and Navi Mumbai airports, said top executives. This strategy is anchored by an ambitious target: to increase the share of non-aeronautical businesses to 70% of its revenue by 2030, a significant leap from the industry's current average of 50%.

This shift is aimed at building a more resilient business model, with the city-side ventures serving as the primary drivers of growth, Adani Airports chief executive Arun Bansal told ET in an interview. "Right now, our revenue is about 50% aero and 50% non-aero. But by 2030, I expect aero revenue to drop below 30%, with non-aero including city-side developments making up around 70% of our total revenue," he said.

Adani Enterprises' airport arm is its third-largest revenue contributor, after Integrated Resources Management and New Energy Ecosystem. The airports business recorded income of ₹2,715 crore in the first quarter of fiscal 2026, a year-on-year increase of 25%. As per the company, this growth was "in line with higher volume and non-aero income". In June, Adani Airports Holdings raised $750 million through external commercial borrowings to refinance debt and expand non-aeronautical businesses like retail, food & beverage and duty-free across its six airports.

The project's centrepiece is the 240-acre land parcel at Navi Mumbai International Airport, which is scheduled to operationalise its phase 1 by October this year.

Amit Grover, CEO, City Side Development at Adani Airports, said it will be a "walkable business district". Its first phase (Zone 2) will feature a commercial ecosystem with five hotels with 1,000 keys in total, a shopping mall, and three office towers. While standalone residential units are restricted, a limited number of service apartments will be included as an extension of the hotel properties. The first phase which is projected to be completed by 2031 will cover around 50 acres.

Live Events

This model draws inspiration from leading global airport cities such as Schiphol in Amsterdam, Sydney Airport and Zurich's "The Circle", which have successfully created dynamic mixed-use hubs combining hospitality, retail and office spaces. "When looking at market benchmarks for airport cities, Schiphol, Sydney, and Zurich consistently rank among the best, while Changi Airport is also actively working to diversify its revenue streams," Grover said. The focus on mixed-use developments aims to attract both travellers and city residents to ensure consistent business activity, Grover said.

The company is in discussions with the "top five hospitality chains" to manage the new properties, though specific brand names have not been announced, Bansal said.

Development at the existing Mumbai airport is constrained by the Airports Authority of India Act. He said this makes the Navi Mumbai site's concession agreement a more favourable starting point.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless