Title: Facial Recognition: Coming Soon to Airport Near You...
Source: Dnyuz.com
URL: https://dnyuz.com/2024/02/18/facial-recognition-coming-soon-to-an-airport-near-you/
--------------------------------------------------

Why this World Cup could do for Canada what 1994 did for soccer in the U.S.

VANCOUVER, Canada — When the first men’s World Cup game played in Canada kicked off last week, Anthony Totera sat in the...

San Francisco Film Patrons Are Found Dead on Side of Highway

Three San Francisco couples set out Monday for their annual road trip to Ashland, Ore., for the town’s famous Shakespeare...

Vance Delays Trip to Switzerland for Direct Talks on Iran Deal

The White House said late Thursday that Vice President JD Vance was delaying his trip to Switzerland to negotiate with...

Trump nominee confronted over hateful campaign smear

President Donald Trump’s nominee for ambassador to Jamaica, Kari Lake, refused to retract a false claim about Sen. Ruben Gallego...

DOJ lawyers flee to blue state rather than be Trump’s ‘fool or a coward’: Dem AG

Department of Justice lawyers ditching the Trump administration to work in a blue state took parting shots, according to a...

Juneteenth: A reminder that affirmative action undermines equality

Communities around California and the nation are gathering this weekend to celebrate Juneteenth, the traditional day marking liberation from slavery. It...

Juneteenth: A reminder that affirmative action undermines equality

Communities around California and the nation are gathering this weekend to celebrate Juneteenth, the traditional day marking liberation from slavery. It...

Who Is Andy Burnham, the Man Who Could Be Britain’s Next Prime Minister?

Andy Burnham has twice run unsuccessfully for the leadership of Britain’s governing Labour Party. Now his decisive victory in a...

Bunny Xo reveals the truth behind Chad Kroeger dating rumors after Jelly Roll divorce bombshell

Bunnie Xo is coming clean about rumors going around she’s dating Nickelback singer Chad Kroeger. The podcaster, 46, sparked chatter...