Title: Many airlines have 'stopover' programs that let travelers tour a city between connecting flights, and some will even pay for a hotel — here's how to book them
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/airlines-that-offer-stopover-programs-free-hotels-2024-4
--------------------------------------------------

Southwest Airlines' new partnership with Icelandair will allow travelers to extend their layover time in the island nation for up to a week through the European carrier's popular "stopover" program.

Southwest-Icelandair itineraries connecting from the US to Europe via Reykjavik will be eligible. These itineraries can be booked via Icelandair's website.

It's part of the pair's new "interline" agreement, which means passengers can seamlessly travel on both airlines with one ticket. The main perk is not having to re-check luggage for non-stopover connections.

It's unclear if or when the stopover option will be available via booking on Southwest's website, as Icelandair manages the program. Southwest plans to begin selling Icelandair seats in 2026.

The partnership comes as Southwest shakes up its business model to create more revenue-earnings opportunities.

Southwest and Icelandair's first shared US gateway will be Baltimore, which will launch in February. Denver and Nashville will follow later this year.

What is an airline 'stopover' itinerary

A special segment of adventurous travelers will purposely book itineraries with long connections in layover cities just to leave the airport and explore for a few hours or days between flights.

This strategy has been coined as "stopovers" in the industry, and more than a dozen global airlines have jumped on the growing trend.

It's basically a vacation within a vacation. These can come with free or discounted hotels, excursions, transportation, and food at the layover destination.

Although it sounds too good to be true, stopovers benefit everyone involved.

Travelers don't have to be confined to an airport during lengthy connections, airlines gain customers who may have otherwise chosen a nonstop option on a competitor, and the carrier's home country sees a boost in tourism.

Plus, airlines typically pay a small fee for cheap or complimentary accommodations provided as part of the stopover option, thanks to partnerships with local hotels or tour companies.

Not all stopover programs are structured with an emphasis on tourism, though. Some were created simply to offer conveniences during long layovers. Still, they are a way to secure a free hotel and explore an extra city.

Here are 21 global airline stopover programs, which can range from hours to months.

Air Canada

Air Canada's Aeroplan loyalty program includes a stopover option for award flights. Adding it costs 5,000 points.

The airline also offers a stopover of up to 48 hours in Toronto for regular itineraries.

Air France/KLM

Air France and Dutch carrier KLM's Flying Blue loyalty program offers a stopover of 24 hours or more in a connecting city on either carrier or their airline partners.

Azores Airlines

The airline allows a stopover of up to seven days in the Portuguese Azores islands.

China Southern Airlines

China Southern Airlines offers a free one-night hotel stay for transfer passengers with qualifying connection times, though there are some time and route restrictions.

Copa Airlines

Copa Airlines' Panama stopover program allows customers to spend anywhere from 24 hours to seven days in the nation's capital on their outbound or return trip.

Emirates

Emirates allows a stopover in Dubai, and passengers can add discounted tours or hotel bookings to their itinerary via its website.

It also has a "Dubai Connect" program that gives eligible passengers a complimentary hotel, transfers, meals, and any needed visa. However, you can't intentionally book a longer layover to quality for the free stopover hotel.

Ethiopian Airlines

Ethiopian Airlines' transit program gives customers flying via Addis Ababa a free hotel, transit visa, and transfers during layovers lasting between eight and 24 hours.

Etihad Airways

Etihad Airways offers a stopover in its Abu Dhabi hub, which comes with an undisclosed discount at select three-star hotels for up to two nights.

Fiji Airways

Fiji Airways offers a stopover program in Fiji, with options to book hotels and activities, for those traveling to and from Australia, New Zealand, and other South Pacific nations.

Finnair

Finnair allows passengers to book 6, 12, or 24-hour layovers in Helsinki at no additional fare charge and outlines itinerary ideas, like hotels and walking tours, on its website.

Iberia

Iberia customers can plan a stopover in Madrid to or from an international destination for one to six nights at no extra cost.

Icelandair

Icelandair offers a stopover option for one to seven days in its capital city of Reykjavik on transatlantic itineraries for no additional charge.

Japan Airlines

Japan Airlines considers itself one of the "most stopover-friendly" carriers in the world. It triggers at 24 hours.

Latam Airlines

Latam Airlines offers stopovers for between one and three days on flights that connect in select cities.

Qantas

Australian flag carrier Qantas offers its stopovers by allowing multi-city bookings to be manipulated to add extra days between flights in layover cities.

Qatar Airways

Qatar Airways' stopover program allows passengers with a minimum layover of 12 hours and up to 96 hours to choose from a list of deeply discounted four and five-star hotels.

Royal Jordanian Airlines

Royal Jordanian Airlines' transit program offers free hotel rooms, meals, and transit to economy and business-class travelers with eligible layover times.

Passengers can't intentionally book a longer layover to be eligible for the complimentary perks.

Swiss International Air Lines

Swiss International Air Lines, or SWISS, has a multi-city stopover booking tool on its website that allows passengers to find itineraries with extra days in Switzerland.

Singapore Airlines

Singapore Airlines' stopover program is available via the multi-city tool where travelers can add hotels, transfers, and activities. The stopover can last one to seven days.

Singapore also offers free transit tours to passengers with eligible layover times at Singapore's Changi Airport.

TAP Air Portugal

TAP Air Portugal allows customers to add a stopover in Lisbon or Porto between one and 10 days, offering discounts on hotels, food, and activities.

Turkish Airlines