Title: British Airways Expands Adds New Long-Haul Routes and More US Flights for Winter 2026
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/british-airways-expands-adds-new-long-haul-routes-and-more-us-flights-for-winter-2026/
--------------------------------------------------

395

British Airways has announced a major expansion of its network for the winter 2026 season. It will increase long-haul flying by approximately 9% as the airline adds new destinations and boosts service on key international routes. The expanded schedule introduces two new long-haul destinations: Melbourne Airport (MEL) and Colombo Bandaranaike International Airport (CMB). Frequencies from several US cities and additional flights across parts of Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean have also been added.

As part of the expansion, British Airways will increase service between the United States and London Heathrow Airport (LHR). Flights to/from Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport (BWI) will become daily during the winter season (matching the route’s current summer frequency). Service to/from Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport (MSY) will increase to 4x weekly, while flights to/from Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) will grow to 12x weekly. The additional flights are designed to provide travelers with more flexibility when connecting between the United States, London, and destinations throughout British Airways’ global network.

British Airways will launch a new route to Melbourne Airport (MEL) beginning January 9th. The service will operate daily from London Heathrow Airport (LHR) with a stop in Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KUL). The launch is timed to coincide with major events in the city (including the Australian Open tennis tournament and the Melbourne Grand Prix).

Another new route will connect London Gatwick Airport (LGW) with Colombo Bandaranaike International Airport (CMB). The winter-season service will launch October 23rd and run 3x weekly.

Beyond the new routes, British Airways is expanding frequencies across several established destinations. In the Caribbean, the airline will introduce a new daily winter service from Barbados’ Grantley Adams International Airport (BGI) to London Gatwick Airport (LGW). The flights will connect onward to destinations including Grenada, Guyana, and Tobago. Service between St. Lucia’s Hewanorra International Airport (UVF) and London Gatwick Airport (LGW) will also increase to daily nonstop flights beginning October 25th.

Elsewhere in the network, the airline will introduce a third daily flight between London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Cape Town International Airport (CPT) starting in December. Flights between London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Tokyo Haneda Airport (HND) will increase to 2x daily beginning at the end of March and continue through the winter season. Service between London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Costa Rica’s Juan Santamaría International Airport (SJO) will increase to 5x weekly and move from Gatwick to Heathrow.

Flights from London Gatwick Airport (LGW) to Kingston’s Norman Manley International Airport (KIN) and Punta Cana International Airport (PUJ) will both increase to 4x weekly.

Meanwhile, service between London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Dehli’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (DEL) will remain at 3x daily following a recent increase earlier in the year. Flights between London Heathrow Airport (LHR) and Abu Dhabi’s Zayed International Airport (AUH) will also return for the winter season (operating daily from October 25th).

In addition to the planned winter expansion, British Airways has temporarily increased capacity on certain Asian routes to meet rising demand. The airline recently added seven extra return flights between London and both Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) and Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) (adding more than 3,300 seats between March 10th and March 19th).

At the same time, British Airways has extended cancellations on some Middle Eastern routes due to regional conditions. Flights to Amman’s Queen Alia International Airport (AMM), Bahrain International Airport (BAH), Dubai International Airport (DXB), and Tel Aviv’s Ben Gurion Airport (TLV) remain suspended through May 31st. Flights to Doha’s Hamad International Airport (DOH) are cancelled through April 30th.

The winter 2026 schedule represents one of British Airways’ largest seasonal network expansions in recent years. By adding new destinations and boosting frequencies on high-demand routes, the airline continues to strengthen its role as a major global connector between North America, Europe, and destinations across Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean.

Neil Chernoff, British Airways’ Chief Planning and Strategy Officer, said:

We’re delighted to announce sizable growth to our flying schedule for winter 2026, including two notable new destinations that I’m confident will prove popular with our customers. We’re also increasing services across several high-demand routes around the world. Together, these changes represent a significant investment in our long-haul leisure network, adding even more options and choice for our customers. Elsewhere, we know there is short-term demand as a result of the situation in the Middle East. To support customers with alternative routes from popular destinations we have already launched additional flights, and we will continue to monitor customer demand and add flights to our schedule if we’re able to do so.”

Anthony’s Take: British Airways continues to have a strong presence in the United States and globally. It’s great to see so much service to the Caribbean and the new routes added.

(Featured Image Credit: British Airways.)