Title: Subsidiary Of Singapore’s Changi Airport Owner Creates Retail JV At Wuxi Airport In China
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinrozario/2024/04/30/subsidiary-of-singapore-changi-airport-owner-sets-up-retail-jv-at-wuxi-airport-in-china/
--------------------------------------------------

Handy previous Chinese experience

To tie up the deal with Wuxi, CAI has been able to showcase its JV with the owner of Chongqing Jiangbei International Airport in Western China, first set up in 2018. This was also designed to enhance the non-aeronautical business of the airport.

Through the JV, CAI claims to have “transformed” the airport’s commercial landscape with the newest terminal, Terminal 3A, featuring storefronts that showcase the city’s heritage as well as local specialty brands and international labels. Last year, LVMH-owned DFS Group brought an array of luxury brands to the terminal and Avolta also has a new luxury beauty offer there.

Before the 2018 JV, CAI had first partnered with Chongqing Airport Group in 2008 to optimize the commercial area in a single terminal. This resulted in a 20% jump in sales per passenger when the space became operational.

Based on Airports Council International data and Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) statistics for 2023, Chongqing Jiangbei was the sixth busiest airport in the country handling 44.7 million.

While Wuxi’s gateway is only a fraction of the size, handling 8.8 million passengers in 2023, business and international tourism prospects are good. At the start of 2024, the airport offered passenger flights to 42 domestic destinations and six international.

The airport is located within the Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone, a key economic and commercial center in China and home to some big exporters of chemicals, electronic equipment, and textiles.

Wuxi is situated on the northern shores of Taihu Lake, China’s third-largest freshwater lake, and has been connected to Singapore with direct flights operated by Jetstar Asia since the end of December 2023. From mid-January, the frequency increased to four flights a week.

The city has a rich cultural heritage with scenic landscapes and landmarks that include the parks of Lihu and Xihui, the Mount Lingshan Grand Buddha Scenic Area featuring a 289-foot-tall Buddha statue, a zoo, and museums.

Flowing through the metropolis is the Grand Canal, said to be the longest in the world at more than 1,750 kilometers, part of which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It connects Hangzhou in Zhejiang province with Beijing.