Title: BTS’s Jin Sees His Solo Smash Soar 12,000% In Sales
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/hughmcintyre/2024/10/28/btss-jin-sees-his-solo-smash-soar-12000-in-sales/
--------------------------------------------------

Jin is preparing to go solo in a way he has never attempted before. The BTS star is planning on dropping his first album on his own, Happy, later this fall. Ahead of the first bits of music from that project hitting the charts, one of his earlier tracks is on the rise as fans buy the tune once again in large numbers.

“Super Tuna,” one of Jin’s only solo songs, is back on a number of Billboard charts this week. The musician recently shared a new, extended take on the cut, which spurred a buying frenzy around the composition.

Luminate reports that in the past tracking frame, “Super Tuna” sold another 4,200 copies. That sum takes into account all versions of the song, including the original and the longer, more involved edition.

The week prior, before Jin re-released the tune, “Super Tuna” didn’t manage even 50 sales. That means that in the span of only a few days, sales of the BTS soloist’s smash improved by more than 12,200%.

All those purchases help “Super Tuna” become a big hit on the Billboard charts again. The track performs best on the World Digital Song Sales list, which it’s ruled in the past. This frame, Jin is back at No. 1 with the fishy tune.

“Super Tuna” also swims back to the Digital Song Sales chart, which is genre-agnostic. On that list, Jin reappears at No. 3. That marks a new peak for the single. It’s also now one of just two hits from the singer that have managed more than one frame on the tally.

Jin originally released “Super Tuna” as a gift for his fans. The song arrived in 2021, not long before he entered the South Korean military, which is required of all men in the country by a certain age. It became a sales win at the time, as does essentially everything that any member of BTS releases. Clearly, his following was still interested in the song years later, as they’ve made it not just a chart hit again, but even bigger than the first time around on at least one list in the U.S.