Title: Paya Lebar Green: A smarter and greener addition to a city fringe hub
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/advertorial/paya-lebar-green-smarter-and-greener-addition-city-fringe-hub-4210376
--------------------------------------------------

As part of the Urban Redevelopment Authority’s (URA) decentralisation strategy, regional commercial hubs such as Jurong Lake District, Punggol Digital District and Woodlands Regional Centre have experienced significant development in recent years. This includes infrastructure enhancements as well as improved road and public transport connectivity.

While average rents in core central business district (CBD) areas such as Raffles Place and Tanjong Pagar hover at approximately S$10 and above per square foot, they fall within a more affordable range in decentralised hubs.

Amid this landscape, Paya Lebar Central stands out as a promising option, offering businesses the amenities of a modern commercial precinct that is a stone’s throw from the city centre.

A HUB ON THE CITY FRINGE

The scheduled relocation of Paya Lebar Airbase in 2030 as part of the URA Master Plan is expected to free up an estimated 800 hectares of land, the equivalent of around five Toa Payoh towns, and bring about the relaxation of building height restrictions.

These changes will mark the advent of taller, smart-tech-enabled developments ranging from offices and factories to homes and logistic facilities. Furthermore, an increase in green spaces such as park connectors, waterways and nature corridors is poised to cultivate a more sustainable and liveable environment.

The allure of regional commercial hubs is often enhanced by their prime positioning within major public transportation networks. Paya Lebar Central, strategically located at the junction of two major MRT lines, enjoys access to multiple bus routes and a park connector that facilitates cycling.

Moreover, Paya Lebar Central’s growing appeal as a business hub is underscored by its proximity to the CBD, a 10-minute drive away, and the vibrant social landscape of the east. Additionally, the hub is located just a 15-minute car ride from Changi Airport, making it a convenient venue for hosting international business visitors.

Spaces like Paya Lebar Quarter, Paya Lebar Square and SingPost Centre have observed significant tenant occupancy, with prominent companies such as Maersk Singapore, Bayer (South East Asia), JLL Singapore and CBRE Singapore establishing themselves in Paya Lebar Quarter’s Grade A office premises.

“The occupancy rate at Paya Lebar Quarter remains consistently high at 99 percent. Employees actively choose to come to work due to the convenient commute, abundant retail options, social amenities and lively community surrounding the workplace,” said Mr Richard Paine, head of development, Lendlease Singapore.

According to Mr David McKellar, co-head of advisory and transaction services (office services) at commercial real estate services and investments company CBRE, office movements in the past year have predominantly stemmed from a demand for better quality and environmentally friendly spaces. “As companies prioritise talent attraction and retention, there’s a growing preference for Grade A office buildings that are newly completed, feature high-quality specifications, are ESG-compliant and offer good connectivity,” he said.

A SUSTAINABLE WORKPLACE DRIVEN BY TECHNOLOGY

Jointly developed by Lendlease and Certis, Paya Lebar Green is poised to become the newest Grade A office addition to the Paya Lebar Central precinct, with a scheduled opening in the fourth quarter of 2024.

Located just minutes away on foot from Paya Lebar MRT, Paya Lebar Green stands as an adaptive and technology-led development that brings progressive innovation to the ongoing transformation of Paya Lebar Central. It has earned WiredScore certifications, affirming the high levels of resilience, future readiness, mobile coverage, choice of providers and user experience afforded by its digital infrastructure.

Home to the Certis headquarters, the development integrates smart building automation, like smartphone-enabled access controls, to enhance security and streamline the workplace experience.

Paya Lebar Green also leverages advanced technology to boost tenant well-being and maximise energy efficiency. This includes incorporating solutions such as enhanced filtration systems and bipolar ionisation for cleaner indoor air as well as IoT-enabled sensors to monitor occupancy levels and regulate lighting and temperature. Additionally, environmental data analytics will be used to drive continuous improvements in operational efficiency.

With sustainability at its core, Paya Lebar Green has achieved a significant milestone as the first development in Singapore to attain all five sustainability badges – Health and Wellbeing, Whole Life Carbon, Intelligence, Maintainability and Resilience – in both the New Non-Residential and Existing Non-Residential Building categories under the latest Green Mark 2021 scheme.

“Paya Lebar Green will set new benchmarks as a smarter, healthier and more sustainable workplace, boasting a diverse array of food, amenities and lifestyle offerings, along with excellent transportation links to both the CBD and Changi Airport,” said Mr Paine.

Find out more about leasing opportunities at Paya Lebar Green.