Title: Alaska Airlines touches down in Europe in historic first flight, rolls out new premium experience
Source: The Points Guy
URL: https://thepointsguy.com/news/alaska-airlines-launches-inaugural-service-rome/
--------------------------------------------------

Alaska Airlines is betting big that the U.S. has room for a fourth true global airline to join power players American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Airlines.

The Seattle-based airline this week took its biggest step yet onto the global stage: Alaska Airlines made its first-ever transatlantic landing Wednesday afternoon, when it touched down in Rome.

The flight marked a new era for a carrier that, for most of its history, has been something of a niche West Coast airline.

But not anymore.

Fresh off its acquisition of Hawaiian Airlines, Alaska now has the big, twin-aisle jets necessary to fly to overseas destinations — and it's planning at least a dozen routes by the end of this decade from its home base at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA).

But this week's flight to Rome Fiumicino Leonardo da Vinci International Airport (FCO) was a true milestone for the airline, marking the "hard launch" of a new Alaska Airlines flagship international travel experience that the airline has been teasing for nearly a year.

I tagged along for the inaugural flight in the comfort of Alaska's business-class suites and got a firsthand look at the new flagship product.

Here's what it was like — and what you can expect — flying Alaska to its new long-haul destinations, from Rome and Seoul to Tokyo and the upcoming Heathrow Airport (LHR) route.

Why Alaska Airlines is going long-haul

Alaska would not have been flying to the Eternal City this week were it not for its 2024 Hawaiian merger.

That deal solidified Alaska and Hawaiian, together, as the nation's fifth-largest airline and created a popular new loyalty program. It also gave Alaska access to the order of brand-new Boeing 787 Dreamliners that Hawaiian had placed before the two joined forces.

Now with a fresh coat of paint and new-look amenities on board, these spiffy jets will be front and center as Alaska pushes beyond its long-standing domestic and short-haul international footprint and challenges the "Big Three" U.S. airlines 35,000 feet above the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.

New check-in experience

Before stepping onto one of Alaska's freshly painted Dreamliners, passengers riding in Alaska's sweet seats are treated to one of the more premium ground experiences available to business-class flyers in the U.S. today.

Alaska took the proverbial wrapper off a fancy new check-in lounge at SeaTac. It's available to anyone flying in a lie-flat seat on Alaska or Hawaiian — or to members who reach top-tier Titanium status in the airlines' shared Atmos Rewards loyalty program. (Remember: Alaska and Hawaiian do continue to operate as two separate brands.)

If you've tried out American Airlines' premium check-in facility at New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) — or Delta's in Seattle, for that matter — it's a relatively similar concept.

Instead of braving the crowds in the terminal, you can check in with some peace, quiet and refreshments, before proceeding down a tunnel and leading to the front of the Transportation Security Administration checkpoint line.

An Italian-themed party on the ground

From there, it was out to Alaska's international gates on the N Concourse. I paid a visit to the Alaska Lounge there, which is personally one of my favorite "standard" airline-branded lounges in the U.S.

Bartenders served up destination-inspired Aperol spritzes to flyers with business-class tickets, or premium credit card holders who receive complimentary access to top-shelf cocktails in the lounge.

Related: Alaska Airlines plots global expansion — with a little help from Portland, San Diego and Atmos Rewards

Stay tuned: Alaska has big plans for a business-class-only concept that could help it compete better with a certain TPG Award-winning outpost at SeaTac.

Down on the airport concourse — on this day, at least — music was blaring, passengers were scooping up spoonfuls of gelato and Alaska Airlines CEO Ben Minicucci was serving up cannolis ahead of the flight that would officially blaze Alaska's trail to Europe. (I wouldn't expect the latter on any future flights, to be clear.)

After a ribbon-cutting, it was time to go.

Among those boarding Tuesday night's flight to Rome? Twenty-year Alaska veteran Kirsten Amrine, who now serves as the airline's chief network planner. She couldn't help but marvel at the significance of this inaugural flight versus those she has scheduled in the past.

"I remember when we would start routes to San Antonio, and Oklahoma and Minneapolis ... and that was exciting," Amrine said, standing in the shadow of the gate. "I think me, at the time, didn't dream this big to think that we'd be starting flights to Tokyo and Seoul and Rome, so ... just kind of overtakes me a little bit, how exciting it is."

On board Alaska Airlines' new Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner

When I stepped onto the plane, one thing was obvious: This was very much the same (beautiful) Dreamliner that Hawaiian debuted in 2024. Look no further than the blue, coral-inspired seat coverings.

Also the same were the 34 enclosed business-class suites, which — yes — have the sliding privacy doors that have become the standard up front. There were 18-inch inflight entertainment screens, phone-charging pouches, in-suite mood-lighting and, of course, lie-flat beds.

Going forward, Alaska is quite succinctly calling this cabin its "Suites."

Beyond that, though, the carrier has taken steps to ensure everything else on board evokes its Pacific Northwest heritage — rather than that of Hawaiian.

A new Alaska-branded 'soft product'

Alaska this week officially rolled out its lineup of new "soft product" elements that'll be staples on its long-haul flights going forward.

This includes tan-colored bedding and amenity kits from Pacific Northwest outdoorsy brand Filson, beauty products from Salt & Stone, and a food and beverage menu that clearly pays homage to the West Coast — from Stumptown Coffee to ice cream sundaes courtesy of Portland, Oregon-based Salt & Straw.

Actually, I found the entire catering experience to be impressive, which started with a predinner cheese plate (a longtime staple of Alaska flights) and continued with asparagus soup, caprese salad and butternut squash ravioli that quite clearly got my palate ready for the destination ahead.

Looking ahead: Wi-Fi and premium economy

Any new flight or international franchise, like Alaska, will have its growing pains when launching a new route — and this one was no different.

The two most glaring gaps on this otherwise impressive Dreamliner?

First, the plane lacked any sort of Wi-Fi. Alaska is planning to install fast Starlink service across its fleet, which will be free for Atmos Rewards members. That's expected to happen later this year, though; so, for now, download those shows and podcasts ahead of time.

Second: In contrast to other major global carriers, this 787 did not have a premium economy cabin, though Alaska executives have said that will come in the next few years.

Those moves will likely be necessary to keep pace with full-service, global airlines with whom Alaska is now increasingly competing. The most notable competitor is Delta, as it shares a Seattle hub with Alaska, and it decided to match Alaska's Rome route with its own new service to the Italian capital in 2026.

Color Alaska leaders unbothered.

"We know that our competition's looking at what we want to do and that they're going to match us," Amrine said. "But I think we have the bigger hub than our competition — it's the largest hub on the West Coast. We believe in our people and the service that they provide, and actually, the bookings are pointing out that guests, particularly in Seattle, are choosing us over our competition."

A new transoceanic chapter

The flight landed in Rome shortly after 1 p.m. local time Wednesday. It was Alaska's first journey to Europe but won't be its last.

Service to London begins on May 21, right before Memorial Day weekend. Also coming soon: Flights to Iceland.

Plus, the flights from Seattle to Asia via Tokyo's Narita International Airport (NRT) and Seoul's Incheon Airport (ICN) were temporarily flown with Hawaiian-branded Airbus A330s last year, but are now fully Alaska.

What long-haul destination could be next?

"I want to blab all the other places I want to go," Minicucci said Tuesday, before thinking better of it.

I guess we'll stay tuned.

How to book Alaska Airlines flights with points and miles

For travelers looking to book Alaska flights in the meantime, you can quickly accrue points in the Atmos Rewards program, which serves both Alaska and Hawaiian, with one of their cobranded credit cards.

Or, you can transfer Bilt to Atmos at a 1:1 ratio.

You can also book Alaska partner award flights using miles from one of its Oneworld alliance partners, including American Airlines.