Title: Air Canada Adds Six New Flights and Increases Service to Europe and Asia
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/air-canada-adds-six-new-flights-and-increases-service-to-europe-and-asia/
--------------------------------------------------

2.7K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Air Canada announced today that it’s increasing international capacity by 30% to Asia-Pacific destinations and 25% to Europe this summer. This includes six new routes and 11 increasing or resuming international flights.

The Canadian carrier’s transatlantic schedule will offer the most nonstop service between Canada and Europe. Flights will depart from Air Canada’s two East Coast hubs, Montréal-Trudeau International Airport (YUL) and Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ), and its West Coast hub at Vancouver International Airport (YVR). New routes include flights to Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport (MAD), Osaka’s Kansai International Airport (KIX), Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN), Singapore Changi Airport (SIN), and Stockholm Arlanda Airport (ARN).

Montréal-Trudeau International Airport (YUL)

Flights out of Montréal include several new and resuming international destinations. These include:

Amsterdam Airport Schiphol (AMS) (7x weekly; resumed on March 30th)

Eleftherios Venizelos Athens International Airport (ATH) (increases to 8x-10x weekly on May 17th)

Lyon-Saint Exupéry Airport (LYS) (3x-4x weekly; resumed on March 30th)

Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport (MAD) (4x-5x weekly; starts on May 10th)

Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG) (increases to 17x weekly on July 24th)

Rome’s Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport (FCO) (increases to 9x weekly on May 16th)

Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) (4x weekly; starts on June 18th)

Stockholm Arlanda Airport (ARN) (3x weekly; starts on June 14th)

Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ)

Flights out of Toronto include several new and resuming international destinations. These include:

Eleftherios Venizelos Athens International Airport (ATH) (increases to 8x-9x weekly on May 18th)

Brussels Airport (BRU) (4x weekly; resumes on May 2nd)

Copenhagen Airport (CPH) (increases to 3x weekly on May 5th)

Edinburgh Airport (EDI) (7x weekly; resumes on May 1st)

Osaka’s Kansai International Airport (KIX) (3x weekly; starts on June 17th)

Rome’s Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport (FCO) (increases to 10x weekly on May 1st)

Stockholm Arlanda Airport (ARN) (2x weekly; starts on June 12th)

Vancouver International Airport (YVR)

Flights out of Vancouver include several new and resuming international destinations. These include:

Hong Kong International Airport (HKG) (increased to 11x weekly already)

Osaka’s Kansai International Airport (KIX) (increases to 6x weekly on June 17th)

Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) (4x weekly; already started)

Mark Galardo, Executive Vice President, Revenue and Network Planning at Air Canada, said:

We continue to see strong demand for southern European destinations, and have increased capacity to countries such as Italy, Greece and especially Spain for this summer. Air Canada is also focused on strategically expanding its Pacific hub in Vancouver and we are thrilled to have launched service to Singapore earlier this month, as well as increasing service to Hong Kong and Japan. With continued high demand for visiting friends, relatives and leisure travel, our increased services to key destinations give customers more options than ever before.”

Anthony’s Take: Europe continues to be hot and Asia is returning. It’s great to see Air Canada adding flights to meet these demands.

(Image Credits: Air Canada, Marc Olivier Jodoin, Conor Samuel, and Mike Benna.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.