Title: Forbes Travel Guide’s 2024 Star Award Winners, The World’s Most Welcoming Countries And More Travel News
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/passport/2024/02/09/forbes-travel-guides-2024-star-award-winners-the-worlds-most-welcoming-countries-and-more-travel-news/
--------------------------------------------------

Forbes Travel Guide Announces 2024 Star Awards

On Wednesday, Forbes Travel Guide revealed its 2024 Star Award winners, a list of the world’s finest hotels, restaurants, spas and cruises. To compile the 66th annual awards, FTG’s incognito inspectors check into hotels and cruise ships, dine in the restaurants and experience spa services while posing as ordinary guests. This year’s list features properties from Mauritius to Macau—with the most new Five-Star hotels in the Middle East.

Set Sail on the ‘Flying Frenchman’ in the US Virgin Islands

Most travelers who book an island vacation either want to be in the water or on it. At The Westin Beach Resort & Spa in the U.S. Virgin Islands, guests can enjoy the new 65-foot luxury catamaran, The Flying Frenchman, which docks at Frenchman’s Reef. The boat, which can accommodate 125 passengers, offers sunset and dinner cruises, snorkeling trips and an open bar—for those want to raise a glass to their good fortune.

The 20 Most Welcoming Places on Earth

Looking for a friendly place to visit on your next vacation, somewhere you’ll feel welcome? Booking.com just released its 12th annual Traveller Review Awards, which reveals the 20 most welcoming destinations on earth. The rankings are based on the amount of awarded accommodations in each city with excellence in staffing and hospitality. Topping the list for 2024 is Arraial d’Ajuda, Brazil, a tranquil beach retreat with a beautiful coastline.

TravelWise

It’s estimated that 7 out of 10 people reduce their travel activity due to some kind of disability. And air travel can be particularly tricky, particularly if a wheelchair is required. The travel research company Skytrax recently released its annual World Airport Awards and named the world’s most accessible airports for people with disabilities. Tokyo’s Haneda Airport was ranked No. 1 with Japan’s Kansai International Airport and Seoul Incheon Airport rounding out the top three.

Inside the Oberoi Concours d’Elegance