Title: Severe Turbulence Scatters Passengers and Food Across The Cabin On Air Canada Flight
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/severe-turbulence-scatters-passengers-and-food-across-the-cabin-on-air-canada-flight/
--------------------------------------------------

3.7K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Air Canada flight AC19 from Vancouver International Airport (YVR) and Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) reportedly hit severe turbulence that scattered food, drinks, and passengers around the cabin yesterday (October 11th). Photos of the aftermath show food splattered across the ceiling and overhead bins.

Aftermath of major turbulence on AC19 today

byu/HefetzHashud inaircanada

Thankfully, no passengers were reported injured. The Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner “hit some major bumps” a few hours into the flight that were enough to cause the huge mess. The passenger who posted about the incident on Reddit wrote:

About two hours into the flight from YVR-SIN we hit some major bumps and everything went flying (including a few people!). Luckily no injuries from what I could tell. Kudos to the crew for keeping everyone under control, and don’t forget to wear your seatbelt!!

The crew came through with garbage bags and trolleys to clean as much as possible. Everyone helped out and it was kind of sweet to see pax and FAs taking care of each other. Somehow they righted a trolley that was on its side in the rear galley (those things are heavy).”

Incidents of severe turbulence are being reported more frequently. The most serious one hit a Singapore Airlines flight in May that left one dead and more than 70 injured (more here). Qatar Airways flight QR17 from Doha’s Hamad International Airport (DOH) to Dublin Airport (DUB) hit turbulence in May. Eight passengers and six crew members were injured with several needing medical attention at a hospital (more here). Finally, at least 30 passengers were injured after Air Europa flight UX45 between Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport (MAD) and Montevideo’s Carrasco/General Cesáreo L. Berisso International Airport (MVD) hit severe turbulence in July (more here). These are highly reported incidents. Others happen without coverage and with varying degrees of severity daily.

Anthony’s Take: The best line of defense against turbulence is wearing a seatbelt. I’ve said it before and don’t understand why people can’t follow this simple rule.

(Featured Image Credit: @HefetzHashud via Reddit.)

User Generated Content Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat encourages constructive discussions, comments, and questions. Responses are not provided by or commissioned by any bank advertisers. These responses have not been reviewed, approved, or endorsed by the bank advertiser. It is not the responsibility of the bank advertiser to respond to comments.

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Anthony Losanno

Anthony is a road warrior with a love of all things travel. He has flown over three million miles, mostly in his favorite bulkhead seat (1B). He'll share the tips and tricks he's learned along the way as well as his thoughts on airlines, hotels, destinations, attractions, restaurants, and ways to get more out of loyalty programs.