Title: Etihad Airways Deploying Airbus A380 on Abu Dhabi to Toronto Route
Source: Atxjetsetter.com
URL: https://atxjetsetter.com/post/etihad-airways-deploying-airbus-a380-on-abu-dhabi-to-toronto-route/
--------------------------------------------------

Etihad Airways announced today that it will be deploying its flagship Airbus A380 on the route between Abu Dhabi and Toronto. While this is great for passengers heading to and from Canada’s largest city, the addition of the superjumbo jet means that another route is getting cut.

Toronto Gets Etihad A380 Service

The co-flag carrier of the United Arab Emirates, alongside Emirates, plans to deploy the Airbus A380 on its route between Abu Dhabi’s Zayed Abu Dhabi International Airport (AUH) and Toronto Pearson International Airport (YYZ) beginning June 24, 2025.

According to Etihad, the change is due to strong demand between Toronto and Abu Dhabi and beyond. Arik De, Chief Revenue and Commercial Officer at Etihad Airways, had this to say about the change:

“Deploying the A380 on the popular Toronto route is a strategic move to meet customer demand for increased capacity while expanding our network. Given Toronto’s popularity among Etihad’s customers, enhancing our capacity in the Canadian market is a logical step. This will strengthen connections to the broader GCC and Indian subcontinent and attract more visitors to experience the vibrant city of Abu Dhabi.”

The Abu Dhabi-Toronto route is currently served by Etihad’s newest aircraft, the Airbus A350.

The as of June 24, 2025, flights will operate on the following schedule:

New York Loses A380 Service with this Change

Etihad operates a fleet of only five Airbus A380s which severely limits the number of routes it can serve. Currently the airline operates its A380s from Abu Dhabi to London Heathrow Airport (LHR), New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport (CDG), and Singapore Changi Airport (SIN).

In order to add the Toronto frequency, one of these destinations had to go. Unfortunately for U.S. based travelers, it appears that New York is getting the axe. Etihad currently operates 2x daily between New York JFK and Abu Dhabi with one of the two flights on an Airbus A380 and the other on a Boeing 787-9.

Looking at Etihad’s website it appears that the A380 frequency will switch to an Airbus A350-1000 the same day Toronto sees A380 service begin. The second JFK-AUH route will remain on the Boeing 787. This represents a massive capacity cut for New York as Etihad’s A350s have roughly 25% fewer seats than its A380s (371 compared to 486).

About the Etihad A380

The Etihad A380 is one of the most luxurious aircraft in the skies today. Premium passengers in Toronto should be excited about the A380s debut though I’m sure New Yorkers will be sad to see it go.

In Economy, the A380 is outfitted with 337 seats and a further 68 are extra-legroom Economy seats. All of these seats are located on the lower level of the aircraft.

On the upper deck is where you’ll find the Business and First Class cabins. Etihad has a whopping 70 Business Class suites on its A380 and has been outfitted with Armani/Casa designed elements. Between the Business Class and First Class you’ll find a lounge space which is a gathering place inflight.

First Class consists of nine “Apartments” which feature a spacious leather lounge chair, and a separate ottoman that transforms into an 80″ lie-flat bed. First Class passengers also have access to personal vanity units and the exclusive First Class shower room.

While all of the seating options outlined above are good, the real reason points and miles enthusiasts love the Etihad A380 is because of The Residence. The Residence is a three-room suite that features a a private living room, bedroom, and ensuite bathroom, complete with a shower. It can hold up to two passengers at is located at the front of the First Class cabin.

Etihad has a dedicated team of cabin crew that serve The Residence guests, offering up everything from a culinary journey with an à la carte menu to breakfast in bed.

Summary

Etihad Airways is deploying its Airbus A380 on its route between Abu Dhabi and Toronto this summer, replacing the Airbus A350-1000. Unfortunately, this means that the A380 will be removed from the Abu Dhabi-New York route which is a significant drop in capacity. It is also a big loss for U.S. based points and miles enthusiasts due to the amount of premium capacity on the A380.

(Images courtesy Etihad Airways)