Title: ‘Hacks’ Team Partners With Infocomm Media Development Authority, Singapore Tourism Board on Season 4 Finale
Source: Variety
URL: https://variety.com/2025/tv/news/hacks-imda-singapore-tourism-board-season-4-finale-1236412932/
--------------------------------------------------

“Hacks” went abroad for its Season 4 finale.

The critically acclaimed Max series traveled to Singapore for the final episode of the fourth season, with Max and Universal Television partnering with The Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) Singapore and Singapore Tourism Board (STB). The episode was supported by the Singapore On-Screen Fund, a joint initiative by IMDA and STB. The fund supports global film and television productions that spotlight Singapore as a tourism and filmmaking destination, providing opportunities for local talent and workforce development.

“This exciting partnership with Max and Universal Studio Group for the ‘Hacks’ season four finale is a great example of how Singapore can support global media productions – with skilled talent, reliable infrastructure, and creative capabilities,” said Yvonne Tang, Assistant Chief Executive of Media Industry Group, IMDA. “The Singapore On-Screen Fund puts our local media industry and artists on the global map by giving them the opportunity to work alongside top international players to create engaging content. It shows the strength of our creative and production capabilities, and the caliber of talent we’re growing here.”

SPOILERS AHEAD

In the final episodes of Season 4, Deborah Vance decides to end her talk show rather than cave to studio pressure. Due to a noncompete clause in her contract, she must travel abroad to continue performing, landing her in Singapore.

“We had such a blast shooting an episode of ‘Hacks’ S4 in Singapore,” said series creators and showrunners Paul W. Downs, Lucia Aniello, and Jen Statsky. “Everyone was so warm and welcoming, and we couldn’t have done it without the Infocomm Media Development Authority and Singapore Tourism Board’s support. The city’s robust production capabilities were so impressive, with the Singapore production crew demonstrating exceptional thoroughness and professionalism, showing how Singapore is a world-class destination all around.”

The season finale featured iconic Singapore locations including:

Benjamin Sheares Bridge, Changi Airport, Gardens by the Bay, NOVA at One Raffles Place, Resorts World Sentosa – Casino and Ocean Restaurant, The Clifford Pier, The Fullerton Bay Hotel, The Fullerton Hotel, Victoria Theatre, and WingsOverAsia’s Hangar66 Cafe.

“We’re thrilled to collaborate with Max and Universal Studio Group to showcase Singapore in ‘Hacks’’ season four finale,” said Eileen Lee, Senior Vice President, STB, Americas. “Our city’s distinctive and dynamic cityscape provided the perfect backdrop for Deborah and Ava’s adventures, and this partnership reinforces Singapore’s position as a world-class filming destination while offering viewers a glimpse of our vibrant city. We hope this inspires audiences to visit and create their own Singapore story.”