Title: Shohei Ohtani doesn't hide excitement over playing in South Korea: I'll take great memories with me
Source: Marca
URL: https://www.marca.com/en/mlb/los-angeles-dodgers/2024/03/16/65f5faf746163fe08b8b45b8.html
--------------------------------------------------

Los Angeles Dodgers star Shohei Ohtani said the upcoming Major League Baseball season opener against the San Diego Padres in Seoul, South Korea, will bring "great memories" for him and his wife, but he will not forget his job.

Ohtani spoke to reporters along with some of his Dodgers teammates at a packed news conference Saturday, a day after arriving in Seoul with his wife, Mamiko Tanaka. If you didn't notice, in late February, Ohtani, 29, posted on Instagram that he was married to "a normal Japanese woman" whom he had known for three or four years.

However, he hadn't said who she was until another Instagram post with a photo of him and Tanaka just last Thursday. Tanaka, 27, is a former professional basketball player who played for Fujitsu Red Wave in the Japan Women's Basketball League from 2019 to 2023.

"[She] comes with me to a game like this," Ohtani said via a translator. "So I think it will be great memories for both of us.

"But as I said before, I have a job to focus on: baseball."

When do Padres and Dodgers play in Seoul?

The Dodgers-Padres games on March 20 and 21 will be Ohtani's debut with the Dodgers and will be the first MLB regular-season games in Seoul.

In December, Ohtani signed a record 10-year, $700 million contract to join the Dodgers. He underwent right elbow surgery in September and will not pitch this season.

He will be used as a designated hitter and there is a possibility he could play in the outfield and with all the eyes on him, he's aware of the pressure.

"I appreciate all the attention," Ohtani added. "Obviously, the attention is always great, being a baseball player and being able to play with these great guys [Mookie Betts and Freddie Freeman] next to me. I'm very excited.

"I'm very used to the attention, but I'm just trying to focus on what's in front of me, whatever it is."

Ohtani welcomed despite South Korean rivalry

South Korean media have run stories about Ohtani, mostly in a positive tone, with social media filled with messages supporting and praising the Japanese phenom and members of his fan club in South Korea put up posters welcoming Ohtani's arrival at Incheon International Airport on March 15.

That's not South Korea's usual treatment of any Japanese celebrity, given the two countries' strong rivalry in sports and other areas due mainly to Japan's past colonization of the Korean Peninsula and their actions during World War Two.

"Japan and Korea have always had a strong rivalry when it comes to sports," Ohtani continued. "I have always watched the Japan-Korea games, and I always respected and admired the Korean team and Korean players.

"So, to be accepted like that and welcomed is a very good feeling. And I want to put on a very good show for everyone."