Title: Asiana Brand Will Disappear & Merge Into Korean Air On December 17, 2026
Source: Loyaltylobby.com
URL: https://loyaltylobby.com/2026/05/14/asiana-brand-will-disappear-merge-into-korean-air-on-december-17-2026/
--------------------------------------------------

Following their $2 Billion merger, Asiana and Korean Air are finally on track to finalize the last stretch and the Asiana brand will be a thing of the past after December 17, 2026.

This means that Asiana aircraft and staff will be integrated into Korean Air and get a new corporate identity while obviously dropping out of Star Alliance, which is going to affect frequent flyer members of both partner programs and Asiana Club.

Asiana dropping out of Star Alliance and becoming Korean Air under Skyteam means that members can no longer redeem miles for Star Alliance partners or even do changes to their existing tickets.

Likewise, those passengers who are ticketed on Asiana flights using partner mileage programs can no longer utilize these flights for new redemptions and changes. You will be able to cancel your ticket or maybe change to a different carrier but nothing else.

As reported by the Korea JoongAng Daily the last day of Asiana will be December 17, 2026:

Korean Air and Asiana Airlines will finally emerge as an integrated flag carrier on Dec. 17, nearly six years after Korean Air first announced its acquisition of Asiana Airlines in 2020.

The two carriers will sign the formal merger contract on Thursday, following the respective boards of directors’ approval of the merger agreement on Wednesday, the airlines said the same day

Under the merger, Korean Air will take over all of Asiana Airlines’ assets, liabilities, rights and obligations. The merger ratio will be 1 share of Korean Air to 0.2736432 shares of Asiana Airlines.

Korean Air’s capital is expected to increase by about 101.7 billion won ($68.2 million).

The two airlines plan to complete the integration process after obtaining government approval from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and revising their operational specifications.

Korean Air will apply to the ministry for merger approval on Thursday and plans to begin procedures next month to revise operational standards required to establish an integrated flight operations system.

Asiana Airlines plans to hold an extraordinary shareholder meeting in August to vote on the merger proposal. On the other hand, Korean Air plans to conduct the transaction as a small-scale merger under Korea’s Commercial Act. Under these provisions, Korean Air will proceed through a board resolution without holding a general shareholder meeting.

The merger between Korean Air and Asiana Airlines was pushed forward as part of a government-led restructuring of the aviation industry following the Covid-19 pandemic. At the time, the government and creditor banks provided policy financing totaling 3.6 trillion won to help stabilize the financially troubled Asiana Airlines.

Korean Air said the launch of the integrated carrier will accelerate efforts to strengthen flight safety systems and customer services. The airline plans to enhance competitiveness in the global aviation market by reorganizing overlapping routes, expanding new routes, revamping airport lounges and improving in-flight meals.

The two airlines are also continuing discussions with relevant authorities, including the Fair Trade Commission, on a plan to integrate their mileage programs.

Korean Air is also increasing its investments to prepare for a larger fleet and route network following the merger. The airline has remodeled its operations control center and cabin crew training center at its headquarters in western Seoul’s Gangseo District and is also expanding maintenance hangars and engine maintenance facilities near Incheon International Airport.

“The integration will elevate Korean Air’s global market presence and establish Incheon International Airport as a dominant global hub through optimized network connectivity and increased transit efficiency,” Korean Air said in a press release.

Even if their frequent flyer programs won’t be merged, this would only mean that Asiana Club would essentially be a lame duck program similar to the former Freccia Alata from Alitalia because a FFP without an underlying airline isn’t really worth much.

Sure, they could allow redemptions on Korean Air and a voluntary balance/status transfer to Skypass, which is probably the best way forward.

I’m not a fan of how their merger and combined operations have played out so far. Both airlines have consolidated their operations at Incheon Airport Terminal 2 and the facilities, especially the TWO lounges, aren’t nearly big enough to support the large amount of passengers of two Korean flag carriers:

Whine Wednesdays: Overcrowded Korean Air Prestige Lounge At Incheon Airport T2

We have covered the merger efforts over the years as it was slowly inching forward:

Korean FTC Forces Korean Air to Rework Asiana Mileage Plan Again

Korean Air’s Updated Asiana Miles & Status Integration Plan

So if all things happen as scheduled then December 16, 2026 is the last day of Asiana Airlines and the two carriers will merge into Korean Air on December 17, 2026.

Conclusion

The merger of Korean Air and Asiana will finally complete in December and after that the Asiana brand will disappear entirely.

This will have consequences mainly for passengers who are tied to other Star Alliance carriers either via ticketing or mileage programs.

New tickets from other Star Alliance programs will no longer be able to access inventory on OZ flights and likewise, Asiana Club members won’t be able to book Star Alliance flights anymore unless there is a bilateral agreement between the programs, independent of the Star Alliance affiliation (like Virgin Atlantic Flying Club or Alaska Airlines ATMOS has it).

If you want to utilize Asiana flights on Star Alliance partner programs, I suggest to do so quickly and ticket something for future use. Keep in mind that you won’t be able to make any changes to this ticket though.