Title: Ryu Jun Yeol Hides His Face On Return From Hawaii Without Han So Hee Amid Dating Scandal
Source: Koreaboo.com
URL: https://www.koreaboo.com/news/ryu-jun-yeol-hides-face-return-hawaii-without-han-so-hee/
--------------------------------------------------

Actor Ryu Jun Yeol made a low-profile return to South Korea on March 17, following his trip overseas — where he was spotted with Han So Hee. Landing at Incheon International Airport in the afternoon, Ryu’s attempt to keep a low profile was evident.

Dressed in a casual getup with a cap, glasses, a mask, and his hoodie over his head, he moved quickly through the airport, doing his best to hide his face and avoid much attention. His return follows the recent public confirmation of his relationship with actress Han So Hee amidst swirling romance rumors.

The speculation about the duo’s relationship began when a Japanese netizen claimed to have seen the starlets together at a luxury hotel‘s swimming pool in Hawaii on March 15. Despite the public interest, the couple initially brushed off questions about their relationship — calling it a private matter.

However, Ryu’s ex-girlfriend, Girl’s Day‘s Hyeri, fuelled the drama further when she posted a picture on Instagram with the caption, “how funny.”

Ryu Jun Yeol and Hyeri had been openly dating since 2017 but announced their split in late 2023. Some fans speculated about a possible overlap between the end of Ryu’s previous relationship and the start of his new one with Han So Hee, especially after Han was seen at Ryu’s solo exhibition around the time of his breakup.

Han So Hee addressed the rumors head-on and dismissed the idea of her relationship being a “transfer“ (a Korean slang for cheating, rebounding, and/or switching) from one person to the other. She also seemed to respond to Hyeri’s cryptic comment with a post of her own.

I don’t like people who have a lover,

nor do I give them space, interest,

or establish a relationship under

the guise of friendship,

nor do I meddle in other

people’s relationships.

I like transit dating programs,

but they’re not a part of my life

I find it funny, too.

— Han So Hee via Instagram

Finally, Han So Hee confirmed her relationship with Ryu on March 16 — asking fans for their understanding and to avoid negative terms like “transfer” in discussing their relationship. She also expressed regret over her previous reactions to the rumors, acknowledging that they were unhelpful.

Meanwhile, Ryu Jun Yeol’s management, C-JeS Studio, also confirmed the relationship, emphasizing that it began well after Ryu’s breakup with Hyeri. They also stated their intent to take legal action against any harmful rumors or slander directed at the actor.

You can learn more about the relationship news and reactions to it here: