Title: Review: Singapore Airlines Business Class Lounge T3 (SIN)
Source: Youngtravelershongkong.com
URL: https://youngtravelershongkong.com/2024/08/singapore-airlines-t3-lounge/
--------------------------------------------------

In February 2024, I had the opportunity to fly Singapore Airlines business class from Singapore to Phuket. This meant that I had access to Singapore Airlines’ new lounge at Changi Airport’s Terminal 3, which opened after a refurbishment in May 2022. While I’ve accessed Singapore Airlines’ lounges in Hong Kong, Taipei, and Bangkok etc. before flying Star Alliance airlines out of these respective cities, I’ve never actually visited Singapore Airlines’ hub lounges before, so was keen to give them a try. In this installment I’ll review Singapore Airlines’ flagship lounge at Terminal 3, and in the next installment I’ll review their lounge at Terminal 2, which my flight was departing out of.

While Singapore Airlines’ new T3 lounge is gorgeous, I was acutely aware of the fact that the airline doesn’t design lounges for passengers to go out of their way to enjoy – they’re purely luxurious waiting rooms before flights. I was especially able to contrast this with the KLM Crown Lounge I visited the day prior, which was rougher around the edges, though more evidently designed for passengers to go out of their way to enjoy.

Anyway, here’s a review, where I’ll detail the lounge’s seating and ambience, dining options, and other facilities.

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Access and Entry Requirements

Singapore Airlines’ lounges at Changi Airport are open round the clock, and are open to business class passengers travelling on Star Alliance airlines. You’ll be allowed to use the lounge regardless of which terminal you’re flying out of (do note that you will have to travel to that terminal, though, which would take a while). Despite departing at Terminal 2, I was able to pass immigration and head airside at Terminal 3 – I didn’t have to clear security, as security at Changi Airport Terminals 1-3 is situated at each individual gate.

You need to be travelling in business class in order to access this lounge – Star Alliance Gold status holders travelling in economy and premium economy only have access to the KrisFlyer Gold lounge. The exception is that PPS Club members flying on Singapore Airlines in any cabin can access this lounge.

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Location and Entrance

Changi Airport T3’s lounges are located on the first floor, so most escalators will lead you somewhere towards the SilverKris business class lounge. Signage at Changi is generally very good, and I was very easily able to locate escalators pointing towards lounges.

Changi Airport Terminal 3 Airside

There’s an escalator leading straight up to a well-signaged SilverKris Lounge entrance, located by the main departures hall closest to the A gates. There’s a batik motif with 105 art glass pieces.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Exterior

I didn’t actually see the above until I was about to leave, as I headed upstairs early and entered through a side entrance, which also fed into the entrance of the lounge.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Back Entrance

The batik motif continued through the entrance of the lounge, where the First Class Lounge, Private Room, and Business Class lounge all share an entrance.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Entrance

Upon my boarding pass being inspected, I was informed that my flight would be departing from Terminal 2, and told to leave 20-25 minutes to get to my gate. I was then told no boarding announcements would be made in the lounge, and welcomed in.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Entrance

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Seating and Atmosphere

Singapore Airlines’ new Changi lounge is massive, and can accommodate up to 570 guests seated. I first turned left into the main “indoor” seating area, first featuring some individual relax pods with large armchairs and side tables.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Seating

Then further into the lounge was the main dining area, featuring rows of communal seats and tables, as well as bench seating.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Seating

Then even further beyond were a few more tables. Some were set up for a better working setup with chest-height tables and wireless charging, and others were round tables for larger groups and families.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Seating

Meanwhile, back by the entrance, there was also a collection of low-table seating and high-top bar seating facing the tarmac (due to the lack of lighting as this was before sunrise, fewer people chose to sit here).

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Seating

On the other side of the lounge, first I walked past the bar and café area, which featured bar seating as well as some comfortable sofa chairs – similar to what you’d get at a real cocktail bar.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Bar Seating

Then further beyond this on the other end of the lounge was a part of the lounge exposed to the main terminal, which featured seating more apt for relaxing. This included high-top seating, some more comfortable armchairs, and more individual pods.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Seating

There were even private work pods, somewhat reminiscent of the airline’s own longhaul business class seat.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Work Pod

I enjoyed the extensive variety of seating, and WiFi was fast and free as well. I was appreciative of the large number of universal power ports and wireless charging pads available at many seats.

At the same time, these are very much “pass the time” seats – there are no loungers that face the tarmac (or even the terminal) where you can planespot or people-watch for hours, no sofas, and no particularly “fun” seating options. I tend to think that this is intentional – Singapore Airlines doesn’t design lounges with fun in mind, but rather want to make sure passengers have an optimal experience while waiting for a flight for the shortest time that they have to.

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Showers

I checked out from the 21 Carpenter hotel in Singapore hotel particularly early to check out this lounge, so I decided to get a shower here instead of at the hotel. The shower rooms were clean, well-ventilated, and had a bidet toilet, as well as a rainforest shower with good water pressure – no complaints there. The shampoo and body wash on offer weren’t branded, but did the trick. My one slight nitpick is that the rooms were on the warm side.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Shower Room

If you have accessibility challenges, there’s a larger and specially equipped shower room for you as well.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Accessible Shower Room

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Nap Rooms

By the “indoor” end of the Singapore Airlines business class lounge is a rest area with 14 private sleep pods. Blankets and pillows are available on request from staff.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Nap Rooms

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Dining

Singapore Airlines offers a gorgeous selection of food items at their Changi T3 lounge, with a combination of hot buffet items and made-to-order dishes.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Food Spread

The food spread during the morning I visited featured a mix of Western breakfast items, South Asian breakfast items, and dim sum.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Breakfast Options

Meanwhile you can ask the staff to make noodles with your broth and condiments of choice, or you can make your own bowl of congee as well. There’s also their signature laksa available on offer.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Laksa and Congee Stations

Singapore Airlines’ laksa is a staple signature I’ve heard about for ages, so I decided to get myself a bowl. It was absolutely delicious.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Laksa

In terms of drinks, not an impressive amount is available in this section, although there are a few wines and premium liquors available here (the former on tap in a fairly impressive machine). Most of the beverages selection at the lounge would be found by the bar at certain times of day.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Drinks Selection

Meanwhile there was also a food spread on the other end of the lounge by the “relax” section, but it was far more rudimentary, only featuring light treats and fast-food style sandwiches.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Food Spread

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge Drinks and Bar

As mentioned earlier, there’s a gorgeous bar with barista coffee served. Sounds sublime, right? Well, there’s a major catch – barista service is only able from 6 AM to 10 AM, and bartender service is only available from 5:30 PM until 1 AM.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Bar Restrictions

How ridiculous is this? A transiting passenger departing on a 12 PM flight can’t get a coffee in the late morning, and someone leaving on a 4 PM flight can’t get a drink before their flight out, despite the fact that the bar is able to offer both services.

I was at the lounge from around 5:30 AM to 6:30 AM, so midway through I was able to order a coffee from their barista service. I decided to order an iced latte, which was great – what a shame this isn’t available round the clock.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Coffee

Outside of the 5:30 AM to 10 AM hours, you’re relegated to one of the lounge’s far inferior coffee machines.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class Coffee Machine

I’d say this hammers in my impression that Singapore Airlines mainly uses their lounges to serve passengers waiting for their flights, as opposed to the lounge being a “destination” in itself.

Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge KrisShop

In terms of other lounge facilities, there’s also a KrisShop display of sorts, advertising the ability for KrisFlyer members to redeem miles for certain airline merchandise, as well as other items.

Singapore Airlines Lounge T3 Business Class KrisShop

Conclusion: Singapore Airlines Changi T3 Lounge

Singapore Airlines’ new Changi T3 lounge is gorgeous, and a great place to spend time before a flight. The attention to detail in terms of facilities at this lounge are excellent, and between the abundant power ports, variety of seating, good shower rooms, and nap rooms, etc., the lounge has spent a lot of time making sure waiting premium passengers are well-equipped. I also thought the food selection was above average for a hub lounge, and the laksa I had was delicious.

However, I think Singapore Airlines’ lounge philosophy has never made a lounge worth going out of your way for. Nothing in the lounge featured a particular X-factor that’d make me want to come to the lounge extra early for it – there weren’t amenities specifically designed to make passengers go out of their way to get to the lounge early, or book a longer layover. In fact, the fact that barista coffee and cocktails are served at such limited hours show that the airline isn’t necessarily trying to cater to the lounge enthusiast who wants to come early to the lounge to have a great time, and try what it has to offer. I’d hope the airline can see some value in expanding their barista coffee and bar service round the clock, or at least for larger periods of time (especially because there are periods of the day where neither service is offered, where the drinks selection would otherwise be very lacklustre).

Still, though, in terms of fulfilling its purpose, I’d still call Singapore Airlines’ business class lounge at Changi T3 one of the world’s best hub lounges.