Title: The Caribbean Island Americans Can Visit With A Passport
Source: Yourmileagemayvary.com
URL: https://yourmileagemayvary.com/2024/01/17/the-caribbean-island-americans-can-visit-with-a-passport/
--------------------------------------------------

5.4K

Historically, if you wanted to travel from one country to another, you had to have a passport. Of course, you’ll hear stories here and there from people who managed to travel from country to country without a passport (like this guy), but it’s super rare. Even more restrictively, you usually have to have at least 6 months on that passport of yours before it expires, or a country still won’t let you in (although there are some exceptions).

I can’t believe it was five years ago that a pilot program for travel without a passport was going on, but there you go. Since then, more and more countries have begun to embrace the start of passport-free travel.

Singapore’s Changi Airport appeared to be in the lead for passport-free immigration clearance. In fact, in the autumn of 2023, CNN, Euronews, Condé Nast Traveler, and dozens of other news outlets all reported the award-winning airport’s plan for passengers to have access to contactless Automated Border Control System (ABCS) at passenger halls by early 2024.

I suppose it’s still too early in 2024 for “early 2024” to be considered. However, another country – Aruba – has announced it’s ready to roll out its own digital passport program, effective in March of this year.

In November 2023, Aruba launched a pilot program for what they called their Aruba Happy One Pass (AHOP). The first of its kind, AHOP is a digital travel credential system. It allows visitors to complete pre-boarding verification and smoothly cross border checkpoints without providing their physical passports. All of their significant data is stored on their cell phones and shared directly with immigration officials.

Through AHOP, travelers turn their physical passports into verifiable digital credentials on their cell phones. Additional biometric checks at immigration match traveler’s passport images via facial recognition. The process has streamlined border control’s flow and therefore cut wait times and got travelers to their destinations quicker. It also reduces the risk of error, identity theft, or fraud.

“The latest achievements for Aruba Happy One Pass signify our steady progress in transforming the traveler experience – ensuring our guests start their vacations sooner,” Ronella Croes, CEO of Aruba Tourism Authority, said when the pilot program was launched. “Aruba is proud to continue building upon its innovative approach within the tourism industry, providing an exceptional travel experience for its visitors. We continue to look forward to the full implementation of the Aruba Happy One pass program.”

And now it appears full implementation is ready – this March.

The AHOP webpage appears to still be in “pilot” mode, but as the time comes for the program to go live, that should change.

Aruba isn’t alone in offering a pilot program for travelers to enter passport-free. Dubai began its pilot for a similar program in the autumn of 2023, as well. Their pilot is ongoing.

To be fair, even when digital credentials become the norm, you’ll still need to have your physical passport with you. That will be the case, regardless of the country or countries you’re visiting. However being able to enter and leave the country without having to pull your passport out will be a definite time saver.

Want to comment on this post? Great! Read this first to help ensure it gets approved.

Want to sponsor a post, write something for Your Mileage May Vary, or put ads on our site? Click here for more info.

Like this post? Please share it! We have plenty more just like it and would love it if you decided to hang around and sign up to get emailed notifications of when we post.

Whether you’ve read our articles before or this is the first time you’re stopping by, we’re really glad you’re here and hope you come back to visit again!