Title: Review: Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class (ICN-HKG)
Source: Thealviator.com
URL: https://thealviator.com/2025/10/cathay-pacific-regional-business-review/
--------------------------------------------------

In September 2025, I flew Cathay Pacific’s regional business class from Seoul to Hong Kong. While it’s a bit of a lottery draw, I wanted to see whether I was able to try one of Cathay Pacific’s refreshed planes in regional business class. We ended up getting a plane that hadn’t been refreshed yet, though I figured I’d write the review anyway.

The Cathay Pacific regional business class product is an aging product, and while it’s comfortable enough, I find there to be far too little of a difference between this product and Cathay Pacific’s premium economy product to justify an upgrade on a shorthaul flight. While good catering out of Hong Kong can add some value to the product, catering out of Seoul on this flight wasn’t particularly inspiring, and in this case I didn’t have access to a particularly great lounge pre-departure. I’d make any effort to fly a longhaul-configured aircraft in shorthaul business class if I could.

Do note that Cathay Pacific’s A321neos feature an upgraded version of this seat with privacy partitions and Bluetooth audio – I’d consider those seats to be better than this configuration, though not by much.

Booking Cathay Pacific’s 777 Regional Business Class

Even though I was departing from Tokyo, I chose to originate my itinerary out of Seoul specifically so I could grab a cheap origin fare to London, specifically in Cathay Pacific’s new premium economy class. The full itinerary cost £724 (HK$7,558) in premium economy one-way, with the Cathay Pacific flight from Seoul to Hong Kong being in economy class. Of course you can get better value if flying roundtrip, though the extra marginal cost to get new flight reviews was worth it for me.

The only flight that worked for my schedule was the regional 777. Since I’d already flown and reviewed Cathay Pacific’s regional 777 economy class a couple of days prior, I figured I’d upgrade this segment to regional business class, given the last time I reviewed this exact plane was in 2016. I did so for 19,500 Asia Miles.

The final itinerary for this segment looked as follows:

14/09 Cathay Pacific 411 Seoul Incheon – Hong Kong dep. 15:10 arr. 18:00 [Business Class] 14/09 Cathay Pacific 255 Hong Kong – London Heathrow dep. 23:15 arr. 06:20 [Premium Economy]

Cathay Pacific Business Class Boarding at Seoul Incheon Airport

After getting off my ZIPAIR flight from Tokyo, I ventured out of Incheon Airport for a bit, before returning. I already had my boarding pass issued all the way to London Heathrow, so simply made my way through security and immigration (there didn’t seem to be fast track security, though I used the Incheon Smart Pass app), before checking out the Oneworld lounge at Incheon Airport.

I headed over to gate 40 a touch before our published boarding time of 2:30 PM, 40 minutes before our flight departure time. There was a notification posted that our boarding time had been delayed by 10 minutes, so I lingered around the gate area for a bit (away from the boarding gate), and took some time to check out the 777 taking us to Hong Kong.

Cathay Pacific 777 at Incheon Airport

Cathay Pacific currently boards most of their flights in a few lanes – they are trying out a new zone boarding system, though this is only being in the initial stages of being rolled out at the moment. On this flight, Oneworld Emerald and Cathay Diamond members boarded first, followed by business class and Oneworld Sapphire/Cathay Gold members, followed by everyone else.

Cathay Pacific boarding gate at Incheon Airport

We were lined up to board at around 2:35 PM, before boarding officially began just a touch before 2:40 PM.

Cathay Pacific Flight CX411

Sunday, September 14, 2025

Origin: Seoul Incheon (ICN) T: 1 Gate: 40 Dep: 15:10 (15:20)

Destination: Hong Kong (HKG) Gate: 43 Arr: 18:00 (18:20)

Duration: 3 hr 50 min (4 hr)

Aircraft: Boeing 777-300 Reg: B-HNX

Seat: 18A (Business Class)

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Cabin and Seat

Cathay Pacific’s regional 777s feature 42 business class seats, spread across six rows in a 2-3-2 configuration. This is just about the worst business class configuration you can get on Cathay Pacific, as there are middle seats, and this is the least spacious seat in the network. While my outbound flight had the refreshed business class seats with USB-C charging and gold upholstery (similar to what you’d see on the A321neo or in the Aria Suite), this flight sadly featured the older sea green seats – not that there’s a material difference to seat comfort, though I did want to photograph the new cabin.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class

Perhaps this is leaps and bounds ahead of an intra-European business class product, though still not something you expect to see when boarding business class on a flight intra-Asia. The competitive standard from the region is so high, and this product feels quite lame, especially in 2025. I was a bit more forgiving when I flew their A330 a couple of years ago, though the middle seats in this configuration are especially disappointing.

At the same time, I’m not sure how else Cathay Pacific could’ve fit 42 seats between doors 1 and 2 of their 777-300s, so perhaps that’s how they get away with a product like this. Cathay Pacific is introducing a flat-bed business class seat soon, and I hope they come up with something a bit more comfortable and differentiated from premium economy.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Cabin

I selected seat 18A, the left window seat in the last row of the cabin, which is my preference. This row was missing a window, but I knew that coming in (it was also one of the only window seats left when I upgraded).

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Seats 18A and 18C

The seats go marginally further back than a premium economy product, and have been described as other bloggers like a dentist’s chair, which I don’t disagree with. There is a calf rest, though no footrest – there’s not much space to put your feet after the calf rest is put up.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Recline

The seat controls were to my right, and quite battered.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Seat Controls

In front were two phone holders. These seats were designed in 2012, so none of the newer smartphones can fit in these compartments anymore (I think they’re about the same size as an iPhone 4 – they might fit an iPhone 13 mini). Cathay Pacific is removing these storage compartments outright as part of their cabin overhaul – while I’m generally a fan of having storage (which this seat otherwise doesn’t have much of), I don’t mind losing these phone holders, as they’re some of the least practical compartments out there.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Phone Holders

In terms of in-seat storage, there’s a literature pocket under the armrest that can hold a laptop or iPad, though that’s about it.

In front was a fairly low-definition TV screen, which was loaded with Cathay Pacific’s last-generation inflight entertainment system. Not pictured is an old TV remote that you can find a remote, though this TV is touchscreen (though not particularly responsive).

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Screen

In terms of charging, there’s a USB-A port and mini-DIN port next to the TV, and two 110V power ports below the seat. The seat isn’t particularly modern as far as tech goes. (If you’re on a plane with the refreshed business class product, you’ll get a USB-C port in lieu of the current USB-A port).

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class In-Seat Power

The tray table that slides out from underneath the TV screen is not bad for working, though.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Bi-Fold Tray Table

There’s also a cocktail table that slides out from the side table, though I wouldn’t trust myself not to spill my drink if I put one there.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Cocktail Table

While this seat reclines further and has more legroom, I’d actually consider Cathay Pacific’s A350 and new 777 premium economy seats to be better than this seat as far as storage and tech goes – those are things that I’d look for more when flying shorthaul in premium economy.

I know Cathay Pacific wants to introduce a flat-bed regional business class seat (where cabin density presumably would face a reduction). However, if they were to keep a 2-3-2 configuration with seven rows in the same space, I’d suggest a major overhaul to seat tech and storage – bring in the airline’s latest entertainment system, replace the phone holders with a practical storage compartment, and perhaps use the under-seat space a bit better, given that the tray table very much could fold out from the armrest. If space isn’t a luxury, there are so many thoughtful design features that this seat just doesn’t really have.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Amenities

Cathay Pacific offers a decent selection of amenities in regional business class, which are the same regardless of which aircraft you’re on. The pillow is quite similar to what you’d get on a longhaul flight, and is from their partnership with Bamford – it’s large and comfortable (a huge upgrade from the tiny pillows they used to have a few years back).

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Pillow

Blankets were provided on request on this day flight, and I did ask for me. The blankets were more than comfortable enough for a shorthaul flight, though I’d point out that I received the exact same blanket on a shorthaul premium economy flight last year.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Blanket

Cathay Pacific’s standard headphones were on offer, which are decent enough.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Headphones

Lastly, while not an amenity, a bottle of water was placed at the seat for each person, which I appreciated.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Water

This is about as much as what I’d expect from a regional business class flight within Asia. Perhaps there are airlines that offer a bit more industry-leading shorthaul amenities such as better blankets and slippers, though I was content with what I received here.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Pre-Departure Service

Around 15 minutes after takeoff, a crew member came to my seat with a selection of pre-departure beverages. This included champagne, orange juice, apple juice, and water. I chose champagne, which was served in a small glass. Cathay Pacific pours Piper-Heidsieck Essentiel on these shorthaul flights.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Pre-Departure Beverage

My meal order was then taken after pushback, and I was also asked what I wanted to drink with it.

Taking Off from Incheon Airport

Boarding was complete at around 3:05 PM, and the business class cabin went out full (as far as I could tell this was a full flight). The captain came onto the PA to announce our flight time of 3h 6m. This was followed by the safety video.

It was a “fine afternoon” as the captain described, and we pushed back next to a gorgeous Etihad 787 sporting their Greenliner livery.

Etihad 787 at Incheon Airport

Terminal 1 at Incheon has some really interesting traffic, and we taxied past a Thai Airways A350, Air Astana A321neo, Jeju Air 737, and Malaysia Airlines A330.

Traffic at Incheon Airport

We also saw a Finnair A350 parked away from the terminal, presumably before its evening service from Incheon to Helsinki.

Finnair A350 at Incheon Airport

We were wheels-up at 3:40 PM from runway 34R, and turned left over Gyeonggi Bay to head south towards Hong Kong.

Takeoff from Incheon Airport

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Lavatory

Cathay Pacific’s 777 regional business class cabin features two lavatories, one at the front and one at the rear. While the lavatory itself was standard and featured Bamford amenities, I couldn’t help but notice that the airline wasn’t really trying with this cabin anymore – for example, the flower holder was just left empty.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Lavatory Flowers (or lack thereof)

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Meal Service

The meal service began around 30 minutes after takeoff, very shortly after the seatbelt sign was turned off. The menus originally could be found at our seat when we boarded, and looked as follows:

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Menu

The menu for today’s flight read as follows:

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Menu

I couldn’t help but find this menu particularly uninspiring. While Cathay Pacific has some great ex-Hong Kong catering (even intra-Asia), some of their outstation catering can be a bit underwhelming. For example, the only Hong Kong option on the menu was barbecued pork ribs with honeyed soy sauce – I didn’t go for this option so can’t speak for how it tasted, though it didn’t sound exciting at all to me.

I’ve always been a fan of Cathay Pacific’s drinks menu, with good cocktails and non-alcoholic options. On this flight it read as follows:

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Drinks Menu

After a tablecloth was laid on my seat, I was first served some mixed nuts. I was asked for what I wanted to drink, and asked for Cathay Delight – unfortunately they had run out. So I had a negroni, which arrived a few minutes later.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Drinks Service

15 minutes later, the flight attendant serving me came back with the starter, which was an Asian style chicken salad with black vinegar dressing. This was a cold appetiser that some people might find weird, though I actually liked this – while it didn’t feel particularly high-end and could have easily been a good economy or premium economy starter (just more elegantly presented), it awakened the palate and was fairly tasty. The side salad was quite sad, though.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Appetiser – Asian style chicken salad with black vinegar dressing

A breadbasket followed shortly after, and I picked garlic bread, which was fine (though could’ve had a lot more garlic on it).

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Garlic Bread

This was followed by the main course. I wasn’t too excited by the Hong Kong flavours option and hadn’t actually spent any time in Korea, so decided I’d go for the bibimbap. I also decided to try out the dessert wine, which was a tasty Promesse de Rabaud Promis sauternes. I like that Cathay Pacific has dessert wine on the menu for their shorthaul business class flights.

I was actually quite happy about the bowl that the bibimbap was served in, though it’s not very classy to serve bibimbap with microwaved rice in a business class cabin. I mean, this is high-quality Korean cooked white rice (anythin gbut Uncle Ben’s minute rice vibes), though surely they could’ve removed it from the packaging and put it in a separate bowl.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Main Course – Bibimbap

At least this came with all the condiments, including gochujang, sesame oil, and nori. It’s very hard to go wrong with bibimbap with all of these ingredients present, and at least the microwaved rice was quite high-quality.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Bibimbap

For dessert, we were offered some (hard) caramel biscuit Häagen-Dazs ice cream, as well as a cheese plate. I decided to have both.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Dessert

Cathay Pacific’s catering is generally hit-or-miss in business class – it’s consistently pretty good when flying out of Hong Kong, and can be quite good out of some outstations (such as Hanoi). While the appetiser and bibimbap were both tasty, I can’t help but feel like this was a bit of a “miss” – the meal options weren’t exciting, despite the presence of a “local” Hong Kong options, and there was no finesse. I also found the cheese plate and Häagen-Dazs ice cream to be quite lame for a three-hour intra-Asia flight.

Perhaps that’s harsh – I haven’t flown Korean Air or Asiana on the route in years, though last time I did there were four options, including two Korean options (and I also found the presentation of Korean Air’s bibimbap to be much better, including the absence of microwaved rice packaging). However, I felt like catering on this flight was very much in line with what I’d expect flying a regional Asian carrier in premium economy class.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Entertainment System

Cathay Pacific’s regional 777s feature their last-generation entertainment system. While there’s a good selection of movies and TV shows, I found the interface to be on the unresponsive side, and the TV wasn’t the highest-definition.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Entertainment System

The nose and belly cameras were similarly old, and while I typically enjoy having an external view of the ground below, in this case it was too low-definition for me to bother.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Outside Camera

The entertainment system is still good enough, though an unresponsive entertainment system is another reason why I might actually try and fly premium economy on an A350 instead, given the choice.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class WiFi

Cathay Pacific currently has fleetwide WiFi, and it’s free for business class passengers. This functioned well on my flight, and speeds measured 7.35 Mbps down and 2.9 Mbps up.

One of the main design considerations for this seat many years ago was that the business traveller could get work done, and WiFi does make a huge difference, especially when it’s complimentary for business class passengers. However, other passengers can get WiFi for US$9.95 (£7.45/HK$77) for one hour or US$12.95 (£9.7/HK$100) for the full shorthaul flight too.

Cathay Pacific 777 Regional Business Class Service

While everyone I interacted with on this flight was friendly, on this flight I felt like service was especially assembly line-esque, with no personalisation whatsoever. Meal orders were taken before takeoff, the cabin crew worked through the cabin to serve each course (albeit without trolleys), and they weren’t anywhere to be seen outside of this. Even handing out blankets on-demand felt like a bit of an assembly line process, as the crew just had to go through the entire cabin in order to ensure everyone had what they needed. I’d so much rather have one flight attendant assigned to each “section” of passengers, i.e. the front left, front right, back left and back right quarters of the cabin.

On the plus side, my drink orders were always kept replenished, and the crew were efficient.

Landing into Hong Kong Airport

At around 5:30 PM Hong Kong time, just around 2h 30m from takeoff, we were told that we’d be landing in half an hour. Our flight route hugged the coast of China, and we came in from the south for a seaside approach into Hong Kong. This meant that there wasn’t much in the way of city views.

Landing into Hong Kong Airport

We touched down onto runway 07L, the newest runway at Hong Kong Airport and the furthest from the terminal. From there, we taxied along the northern edge of the airport to make it to the terminal. It was a beautiful day in Hong Kong, so my eyes were glued outside the window, especially as we passed the Midfield Concourse and the main concourse. It was so cool to see so many widebody aircraft with mountains in the background.

Traffic at Hong Kong Airport

Our gate was on the far end of the main concourse, so I guess our taxi was as long as it could possibly be. We passed a lot of Cathay Pacific widebody aircraft.

Cathay Pacific widebodies at Hong Kong Airport

We finally reached the “odd-numbered” gates on the other end of the airport terminal, and saw a Cathay Pacific A350, as well as United and Air New Zealand 787s.

Traffic at Hong Kong Airport

We parked at gate 43, next to an Air New Zealand 787. I haven’t flown Air New Zealand in over a decade, and would absolutely love to fly them soon (perhaps in their award-winning premium economy product)!

Air New Zealand 787 at Hong Kong Airport

I had a five-hour transit at Hong Kong Airport, and the plan was to grab dinner with my family at the Regal Airport Hotel, where they’d also brought me my large suitcase to check-in back to London Heathrow. We actually ended up sending my bag off first at the departures hall, and had a wonderful dinner before I was sent on my way.

Conclusion: Cathay Pacific’s 777 Regional Business Class

I’m generally a bit harsh on Cathay Pacific’s regional business class – it’s an aging product, and some planes are getting a refresh, with new upholstery and USB-C ports. On this flight, some of the in-seat tech was extremely old, such as the unusable phone holder storage compartments and the mini-DIN port. I did enjoy the inflight WiFi, and the amenities were absolutely fine.

I think the reason why I’m so critical of the product is that it’s far too similar to Cathay Pacific’s premium economy class. The fact that you could book a full-fare business class ticket on a high-yield intra-Asia route and end up in a middle seat in a 2-3-2 configuration is quite lame. In fact, on a shorthaul flight, I’d probably value the tech, better entertainment system, and storage space more than the additional legroom and recline that these seats offer. In that sense, Cathay Pacific’s A350 premium economy product might even be a better choice than their regional business class product, especially when you get a choice of both e.g. on a flight to Singapore or Tokyo where there are multiple frequencies a day.

On this flight, I also found the catering to be uninspiring and service to be impersonal, making the overall experience unremarkable. So while I still enjoyed my flight, I’d do everything in my power to try and fly a longhaul-configured aircraft on a shorthaul flight, and would consider flying premium economy instead if that was available, and their longhaul business class wasn’t an option.