Title: Singapore Airlines is Cancelling Its Manchester to Houston Route. Glad I Flew It This Past Weekend
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/singapore-airlines-is-cancelling-its-manchester-to-houston-route-glad-i-flew-it-this-past-weekend/
--------------------------------------------------

1.2K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

I’m glad I got to fly Singapore Airlines’ fifth freedom route between Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH) and Manchester Airport this past weekend (review here) as the route is being cut in April 2025. Singapore has been flying this route since October 2016.

The route will be dropped in April 2025 after nine years of flying. The 5x weekly service has been operated by an Airbus A350-900 with 42 Business Class, 24 Premium Economy, and 187 Economy Class seats. While this route will be gone, Singapore Airlines will continue to fly between Singapore Changi Airport (SIN) and Manchester Airport (MAN) 5x weekly.

Singapore Airlines flies to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR), New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK), San Francisco International Airport (SFO), and Seattle-Tacoma International Airport from Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). It also runs two other fifth freedom routes to/from the United States with Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and Tokyo Narita Airport (NRT) as well as New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and Frankfurt Airport (FRA) seeing scheduled service.

Dai Haoyu, Acting Senior Vice President Marketing Planning at Singapore Airlines, said:

Singapore Airlines regularly reviews our network and routes to align our capacity with demand. These adjustments, ahead of next summer, cater to the higher demand to several destinations, particularly during the traditional mid-year peak travel season, enabling our customers to confidently make their 2025 travel plans. We look forward to connecting our customers to the world with SIA’s extensive network, and delivering an unparalleled travel experience.”

Anthony’s Take: I’m sad to see this route go and hope that Singapore adds another fifth freedom route in the future. It’s so cool to fly the carrier between the United States and Europe.

(Featured Image Credit: Singapore Airlines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.