Title: "Maverick and non-conformist" architect Terry Farrell dies aged 87
Source: Dezeen
URL: https://www.dezeen.com/2025/09/29/terry-farrell-obituary/
--------------------------------------------------

Architect Terry Farrell, best-known for the postmodern MI6 and TV-am buildings, along with his high-tech collaborations with the late Nicholas Grimshaw, has passed away at the age of 87.

Farrell passed away yesterday, according to an announcement by his London studio, Farrells, this morning.

"It is with deep sadness that, on behalf of his family, the partners and practice of Farrells acknowledge the death of our founder, Sir Terry Farrell," the studio wrote on Instagram.

"Terry was frequently called a maverick and a non-conformist, which he relished," the studio continued. "He was an architect who was never quite part of the 'club'."

"He will be remembered as the UK's leading architect planner whose enduring commitment to urbanism has helped shape government policy on key built environment issues."

The news of Farrell's death follows the passing of his long-term collaborator Grimshaw earlier this month at the age of 85.

Farrell was born in Cheshire in 1938 and graduated with a degree in architecture from the Newcastle University School in 1961, before going on to obtain a master's degree in Urban Planning from the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

Farrell moved to London in 1965 to form his celebrated partnership with Grimshaw – the Farrell/Grimshaw Partnership – where they shared a studio with experimental British architecture collective Archigram.

During this time, the studio created the iconic high-tech Herman Miller Factory in Bath and the 125 Park Road residential building in London.

In 1980, Farrell and Grimshaw went their separate ways, with Farrell establishing his own firm, Terry Farrell & Partners, known today as Farrells.

Among his studio's most notable projects is the ziggurat MI6 headquarters building in Vauxhall and his 441-metre-tall KK100 skyscraper in Shenzhen, which is the tallest building designed by a British architect.

His other key projects include the TV-am studios, or Breakfast Television Centre, in Camden Town, the Charing Cross Station redesign and the redevelopment of the Comyn Ching Triangle city block in Covent Garden.

Outside of the UK, the studio designed Beijing South railway station and the Ground Transportation Centre at Incheon International Airport in Seoul.

One of Farrell's most recent endeavours was establishing the Farrell Centre gallery and community space in Newcastle, for which he donated his architectural archive and £1 million towards the build.

Directed by Dezeen columnist and architectural writer Owen Hopkins, the centre is hoped to encourage discourse on architecture and planning, both in the city and at a global scale.

Alongside practising as an architect, Farrell taught at universities around the world, including at the University of Pennsylvania, Cambridge University and the University of London.

Farrell was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1978, before being promoted to Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1996. He was knighted for his services to architecture and urban design in 2001.