Title: Travis King told officials he wouldn’t ‘return to America’ nearly a year before fleeing to North Korea
Source: Freerepublic.com
URL: https://freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/4169798/posts
--------------------------------------------------

The New York Post ^ | 07/22/2023 | Matthew Sedacca

Posted on by thegagline

American soldier Travis King had shown signs of possibly defecting from the Army nearly a year before he fled into North Korean territory, telling military officials while serving in South Korea that he would not “return to post or America.”

***

It was not the first sign of trouble for the Wisconsin native, who was facing assault allegations over a fight at a club on Sept. 25.

[On] Sept. 4, while serving at Camp Bonifas near the southern end of the Demilitarized Zone that separates North and South Korea, King skipped out on his daily formation and took off to a nearby city, ***

When the base managed to reach King, who served as a cavalry scout, he “refused to return to post or America,” a U.S. official told the outlet.

*** Asked whether Pyongyang might torture King, Blinken said: “There are certainly concerns based on what we’ve seen in the past and the way that North Korea has treated those it’s detained.”

King, an Army Private 2nd Class, was scheduled to return to the United States on Monday but managed to slip past his military escort and was seen wearing civilian clothes during a tour of the Joint Security Area inside the DMZ.

US officials said King had made a “deliberate decision” to enter North Korea, but have yet to explain how he managed to outsmart his handlers at Incheon International Airport — and make it all the way to the village of Panmunjom inside the DMZ the next day.

King, who reportedly shouted “ha ha ha” during his mad dash into North Korea, was heading to Fort Bliss after spending nearly two months at a South Korean detention center over the assault charge.

He faced a dishonorable discharge from the Army over his conviction, a defense source said.

(Excerpt) Read more at nypost.com ...

TOPICS: Crime/Corruption; Culture/Society; News/Current Events

KEYWORDS: assault; awol; crime; desertion; fedsdroptheballagain; korea; travisking; wisconsin Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-40, 41-60, 61 next last

1 posted on by thegagline

To: thegagline

Revoke his passport and let him rot there.

2 posted on by Not A Snowbird (I do not recognize Biden’s authority. (@FeistyFed on TS) 🐝)

To: thegagline

Some escorts are in deep do-do! US military should be stating Travis who ... never heard of him.

3 posted on by RetiredTexasVet (Biden not only suffers fools and criminals, he appoints them to positions of responsibility. )

To: thegagline

he looks a little “light” in the loafers to me....

4 posted on by cherry

To: thegagline

What an idiot. I hope he enjoys his digs.

5 posted on by Jonty30 (If liberals were truth tellers, they'd call themselves literals. )

To: Not A Snowbird

Indeed, don’t spend 1 minute trying to get him back.

6 posted on by PGR88

To: thegagline

Private second class. Don’t most get to PFC after being in the army for more than a year? Anyway, I imagine Private King is having an interesting time about now.

7 posted on by hanamizu

To: thegagline

He’s where he wants to be. Enjoy.

8 posted on by ArcadeQuarters (You can't remove RINOs by voting for them!)

To: thegagline

He probably should have spoken to Private Charles Jenkins before he did this.

9 posted on by Jonty30 (If liberals were truth tellers, they'd call themselves literals. )

To: Not A Snowbird

Let him try that crap in North Korea, he’ll get the anti aircraft gun....if he’s lucky.

10 posted on by Husker24 (Pp)

To: Not A Snowbird

11 posted on by Governor Dinwiddie (LORD, grant thy people grace to withstand the temptations of the world, the flesh, and the devil.)

To: Jonty30

Guess he won’t miss his family?

12 posted on by Leep (What skill or service did the biden family have that netted them tens of millions of dollars?)

To: Governor Dinwiddie

(“ha ha ha”)

He can live like a King in North Korea!

13 posted on by SaveFerris (Luke 17:28 ... as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold ......)

To: thegagline

I guess he will find out how diverse North Korea’s military is.

14 posted on by alternatives?

To: Not A Snowbird

Pretty sure that the North Koreans are not any to fond of “darkies”.

15 posted on by traderrob6

To: thegagline

Enjoy your stay. Send us a postcard and plenty of pictures. Say, “Hello” to Rocket Man.

16 posted on by windsorknot

To: thegagline

Well....bye.

17 posted on by rbg81

To: SaveFerris

This is his chance to enjoy life in “a worker’s paradise”.

18 posted on by Rlsau1

To: thegagline

I bet he’s regretting his choice now.

19 posted on by beethovenfan (The REAL Great Reset will be when Jesus returns. )

To: Leep

20 posted on by Governor Dinwiddie (LORD, grant thy people grace to withstand the temptations of the world, the flesh, and the devil.)

Navigation: use the links below to view more comments.

first 1-20, 21-40, 41-60, 61 next last

Disclaimer: Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.

FreeRepublic.com is powered by software copyright 2000-2008 John Robinson