Title: Turkish Airlines Is Adding Flights to Minneapolis and Aukland
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/turkish-airlines-is-adding-flights-to-minneapolis-and-aukland/
--------------------------------------------------

1.9K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

Turkish Airlines is planning to expand its route network even further with two new cities slated to launch in May. The carrier already holds the Guinness World Record for flying to the most countries of any airline and is now planning to add Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport (MSP) and Auckland Airport (AKL).

The route announcements came during Turkish Airlines’ Management Summit 2025 in Antalya and was reported by local news outlet, Turizmekonomi. Turkish Airlines has set a goal of serving 20 cities in the United States and it currently flies to the following cities:

Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL)

Boston Logan International Airport (BOS)

Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD)

Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW)

Denver International Airport (DEN)

Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW)

Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport (IAH)

Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)

Miami International Airport (MIA)

Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR)

New York John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK)

San Francisco International Airport (SFO)

Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA)

Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD)

No US airlines currently fly to Istanbul Airport (IST). Last year, Turkish announced that it would like to fly to Charlotte Douglas International Airport (CLT), Orlando International Airport (MCO), and Philadelphia International Airport (PHL). If these come to fruition, Turkish will be only one city away from its goal.

In addition to the latest add to the United States, Turkish plans to fly to Auckland Airport (AKL) via Singapore Changi Airport (SIN). Recently, Turkey expanded its aviation partnerships to 175 countries and secured 253 new flight rights through 30 bilateral negotiations.

Anthony’s Take: Turkish Airlines has an incredible route network and the airline continues to expand and offer new destinations. It still needs five more cities to hit its goal of 20 in the United States. I wonder what will be added next.

(Image Credits: Turkish Airlines and Kevin Hackert.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.