Title: To the Authorities: Five Steps to Better Travel, Please
Source: Boardingarea.com
URL: https://wildabouttravel.boardingarea.com/2023/12/better2023-travel/
--------------------------------------------------

I shared last week about my 2023 travel experiences. As we look forward to 2024, there are five things that “those in charge” need to do to make travel markedly better.

Treat Your Customers with Respect

Standardise Baggage Rules and Monitoring

“Visa Free” online clearance processes

We are now seeing the proliferation of electronic arrival processes, including

European Travel Information and Authorization System

Singapore Arrival Card (SGAC)

Malaysia Digital Arrival Card (MDAC)

Canada’s Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA)

USA Electronic System for Travel Authorization.

These electronic systems are all designed to keep track of visitors from countries who do not need visas to enter a country or a region. They all require me to type out all the information that is already in my passport and then add information that the airline holds (flight number, travel date, etc.). What’s the point of a passport if we have to duplicate it? Is it really visa-free entry if we have to pay a fee and apply for entry into a country? Worse, it doesn’t speed up the immigration process at the other. Rethink these please.

Stop the Understaffing of Immigration and Security

Out of Control, “Resort Fees”.

Invented in the USA and now spreading across the world, these new hidden charges are what you pay at check in. Sometimes, you are clearly advised that they will be collected at check in. Other times, they appeared in very small print on the reservation confirmation. Many times, guests are completely unaware of them, as in many jurisdictions it’s not a requirement to tell guests n advance about them.

These fees are also known as a “destination fee,” “facility fee” or “amenity fee”. In theory, they cover the features of your hotel not included in the room rate (such as the pool or the gym) and are charged on a nightly basis.

We have been complaining about these fees for a few years now. Just outlaw them.