Title: Scoot to operate daily flights from Changi Airport to Subang from Sep 1
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/scoot-flight-subang-malaysia-airbus-a320-faster-travel-time-kuala-lumpur-kl-september-4488516
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: Travellers heading towards Kuala Lumpur will have an alternative option come September after Scoot announced on Thursday (Jul 18) that it will operate a new flight route to Subang, Malaysia.

The new route between Singapore and Subang will start on Sep 1 and will be operated by Scoot's Airbus A320 aircraft.

The low-cost subsidiary of Singapore Airlines will serve the Singapore to Subang route and vice versa seven times a week.

Currently, the only airline that flies direct from Singapore to Subang and back is Firefly. However, the low-cost subsidiary of Malaysia Airlines operates that route out of Seletar Airport and uses ATR72-500 turboprop aircraft.

Subang's Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport is about 26km west of Kuala Lumpur, while Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) is about 50 km south of Malaysia's capital, according to the Malaysia Airports Holdings website.

The new daily flights to Subang "aim to provide customers with an alternative option to conveniently travel between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore, and beyond to the rest of Scoot's network", it said, adding that its route network will increase to 70 destinations as a result.

Scoot added that by September, it will operate 110 weekly flights to Malaysia.

The airline already flies to other Malaysian destinations such as Ipoh, Kota Kinabalu, Kuala Lumpur, Kuantan, Kuching, Langkawi, Miri, Penang and Sibu.

Flight bookings to and from Subang are open from Thursday via Scoot's website and mobile app. Bookings through other channels will be made available progressively. Flight schedules are subject to government and regulatory approvals or changes.

Prices for an one-way economy class flight from Singapore to Subang starts from S$83 (US$61) and RM108 (US$23) from Subang, inclusive of taxes.