Title: Dak Lak, Korean city seek partnership in potential areas
Source: Vietnamplus.vn
URL: https://en.vietnamplus.vn/dak-lak-korean-city-seek-partnership-in-potential-areas/266305.vnp
--------------------------------------------------

Vice Chairman of the People's Committee of Dak Lak province H'Yim Kdoh holds a working session with the RoK delegation. (Photo: VNA)

Dak Lak (VNA) - A delegation of the GoyangConvention and Visitors Bureau of the Republic of Korea (RoK)’s Gyeonggi province,led by President of its Tourism Subcommittee Kong Sunae, paid a working visitto Dak Lak on August 15 to explore cooperation opportunities with the CentralHighlands province.

Vice Chairman of the People's Committee of Dak Lakprovince H'Yim Kdoh and representatives of provincial departments and sectorsheld a working session with the delegation.

Vice Director of the provincial Department ofPlanning and Investment Tran Quang Son briefed the Korean guests on Dak Lak’spotential and strengths, saying that the province has a convenienttransportation system, and land resources suitable for agricultural production,especially perennial industrial crops such as coffee, rubber, pepper, and cocoa.

Dak Lak has the largest coffee growing area andoutput in Vietnam with more than 400,000 tonnes each year, with the famoustrademark and geographical indication “Buon Ma Thuot Coffee”.

With its natural and geographical advantages, andunique culture identities, Dak Lak boasts great potential for agriculture andtourism development, he stressed.

Dak Lak hopes to cooperate with Goyangcity in hi-tech agriculture, agro-forestry-aquatic product processingindustry, renewable energy, and development of high-quality shopping centres,supermarkets, hospitals, and schools, Son said.

Kong Sunae informed about advantages and strengthsof Goyang city, which is about 18 km from the capital city of Seoul and closeto Incheon International Airport. The two sides discussed the demandand areas of cooperation.

According to Oh Jun Hwan, director of the Goyangflower fair, said that Goyang has many coffee processing and exportingcompanies, therefore, the working session created a motivation for Goyang toorganise a coffee expo, even a flower and coffee festival, to introduce andpromote Dak Lak’s coffee products.

Oh hopes that Dak Lak will investin developing golf courses and coffee tours. Goyang can alsocooperate with Dak Lak in motorcycle manufacturing, culture, industry, and MICEtourism, he added.

H'Yim Kdoh expressed her hope that the GoyangConvention and Visitors Bureau will serve a bridge to promote the image ofculture, tourism and cuisine as well as potential of Dak Lak to koreanbusinesses and people.

Dak Lak hopes to welcome tourists and partnersfrom the RoK to do business and invest in a number of fields, she said.

On the occasion, the Korean delegation visitedsome tourist attractions and coffee enterprises in the province./.