Title: Delhi Airport sets biometric gate for faster immigration check
Source: The Times of India
URL: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/industry/transportation/airlines-/-aviation/delhi-airport-sets-biometric-gate-for-faster-immigration-check/articleshow/111001566.cms
--------------------------------------------------

Synopsis

Delhi International Airport has introduced biometric registration kiosks for faster immigration processing, under the supervision of the Bureau of Immigration. The kiosks will halve the time required to process visas for foreign nationals arriving in India with a visa where biometric information was not collected during the application process.

India's largest airport Delhi on Friday said that it has set up biometric registration kiosks for faster immigration processing, which will be operated under the direct supervision of the Bureau of Immigration (BOI).

This will halve the time required to process visas of such passenger, the airport said.

ET had reported about the plan earlier.

Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) which operates the airport said that five kiosks are currently operational at the international arrival pier of the airport and it plans to add five more soon.

kiosks for foreign nationals arriving in India with a visa where biometric information was not collected during the application process, have been set up for the first time at any airport in the country, DIAL said.

Live Events

Visa-holding passengers arriving in Delhi without biometric registration were required to utilise the designated immigration counters, resulting in an average wait time of 4-5 minutes per passenger.

The introduction of these biometric registration kiosks is among the many firsts that Delhi Airport has achieved. It represents a significant step forward in expediting the immigration process and enhancing passenger convenience, particularly for those who were unable to submit their biometrics during the visa application process," said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, Chief Executive Officer at DIAL.

India is framing a national policy to transform its airports into major international hubs that will offer single-point international connectivity to the South Asian region.

The policy, which will need cabinet approval, aims to frame laws for easing security and immigration bottlenecks at airports, allocation of international flying rights and building necessary infrastructure so that airports like Delhi can become transit hubs competing with the likes of Dubai and Singapore’s Changi Airport, people involved in making the policy said.

Hubs aggregate passenger demand from the entire area and offer multiple direct flights to major cities across the world

As a part of this plan, the government is looking to simplify immigration laws and increase the number of officials at major Indian airports to fasten up immigration checks. This is a key part of the government’s strategy to develop Indian airports as South Asian transit hubs.

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless

(You can now subscribe to our Economic Times WhatsApp channel)

(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)

Subscribe to The Economic Times Prime and read the ET ePaper online.

...moreless