Title: McDonald's Japan started a feeding frenzy with Pokémon card happy meals. Here are 3 other times the chain's giveaways got wild.
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/mcdonalds-japan-started-feeding-frenzy-with-pokemon-card-happy-meals-2025-8
--------------------------------------------------

McDonald's Japan launched Happy Meals with special Pokémon trading cards, and fans went wild.

The chain held a giveaway of the trading cards with their children-focused Happy Meals from August 9 to 11. However, it had to stop the giveaway on the first day, saying it had run out of toys.

"The first wave of Pokémon Happy Meal® toys has sold out," McDonald's said in a notice on its website. "We sincerely apologize for not being able to meet customer expectations due to the early end of sales."

Posts on X show large crowds in stores, with people buying several meals to get multiple cards, and discarding bags of food in and around the stores.

In its notice, McDonald's requested that customers refrain from ordering more meals than they could eat and not purchase meals for resale or commercial purposes. It also asked that customers not contact stores asking for Happy Meal availability.

Representatives for McDonald's did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.

Pokémon trading cards mean big business. One pull factor, particularly for millennials, is nostalgia.

The president of the trading card grading company, Professional Sports Authenticator, told Business Insider in 2024 that Pokémon cards are the most popular collectible in the world.

New card sets draw huge crowds to Pokémon stores. The Pokémon Centre in Singapore's Jewel Changi Airport saw over a thousand people turn up for its January launch, and police had to be called in to manage the crowd.

And Lego, trying to ride the Pokémon hype train, announced a collaboration with the franchise in March, set for release in 2026.

There have been other occasions when McDonald's giveaways and special offerings prompted customers to flock to stores. Here are some highlights.