Title: From panic buying in Chile to $8 gas in California, photos show how people around the world are grappling with a growing energy crisis
Source: Business Insider
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/iran-war-gas-prices-energy-crisis-photos-2026-3
--------------------------------------------------

China's National Development and Reform Commission had initially announced that the set average price of gas would rise from $4.20 a gallon to $5.10 a gallon, an increase of 90 cents, The New York Times reported.

On March 23, the agency said the planned increase would be lowered to 50 cents, bringing the price to $4.70 a gallon, leading to lines at gas stations on March 22.

Jorge Quiroz, Chile's finance minister, announced that the price hikes would take effect on March 26, sparking panic buying as vehicle owners sought to fill their tanks before the change.

On March 26, gasoline prices in Chile increased by about 32%, while diesel rose by 58%, making it one of the most expensive countries for gas in Latin America, UPI reported.

Bloomberg reported on April 1 that 900 stations in France have experienced shortages of one or more fuel types, though the energy ministry noted that most incidents can be attributed to logistical issues. Still, some customers were greeted by signs at gas pumps promising upcoming fuel deliveries.

Per GlobalPetrolPrices.com, the average price of gas in France is €1.97 per liter, or over $8 per gallon.

As of April 2, the average price per gallon of regular gasoline in California is $5.90, according to AAA. The national average across the US is $4.08 per gallon.

Gas prices in California are typically higher than the rest of the country due to state taxes, stricter environmental regulations, including "cleaner" gas blends, and limited supply compared to other areas of the country.

In Victoria, Australia, the local government said all public transportation will be free until the end of April. In Tasmania, bus and ferry services were made free for three months, The New York Times reported.

Other measures to relieve the cost of living for Australians include the federal government's action to halve the country's tax on gas and diesel for three months.

On March 23, Porter began charging a $40 peak surcharge for flights within North America and an $86 fee per leg for international flights, when booked with loyalty points through the Canadian airline's VIPorter redemption program.

"We want to be transparent about why this change is necessary," Porter wrote in an email to customers. "Fuel represents the highest cost of airline operations and this surcharge allows us to maintain the number of points required for redemption."

Other airlines have since introduced fuel surcharges, including Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific, which said it would increase its surcharges by approximately 34% from April 1.

"If the steep increase of fuel costs cannot be effectively mitigated, we would ⁠not ​be able to sustain ​the effective operations of our network," the airline said, adding it would review the surcharge every two weeks.

SAS Scandinavian Airlines, Qantas, Air India, Air France-KLM, and Thai Airways also announced plans to adjust their fares.

In Thailand, Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul directed all government workers to work from home. Other measures for civil workers include orders to cancel trips overseas and use stairs instead of elevators, Reuters reported.

As part of the prime minister's directive, government buildings were also ordered to conserve air conditioning by limiting its temperature to a minimum of 27 degrees Celsius — about 80 degrees Fahrenheit —meaning workers were urged to ditch their suit jackets. Three news anchors for Thailand's Public Broadcasting Service showed their compliance with the measure by removing their jackets live on air.

Roughly 10% of Thailand's workforce is in the public sector, per the World Bank.

About 40% of Thailand's 9,000 registered fishing vessels had paused operations, a Thai official told the Bangkok Post in a March 21 report.

The reduction in fishing is expected to push up seafood costs. Seafood vendors have already raised prices of some items by 5 to 20 baht, or between around 15 and 61 cents, per kilogram, according to The National Fisheries Association of Thailand.

Myanmar's military junta cited energy shortages as a result of the war in Iran when it announced new rationing measures in March. Per Reuters, cars with even-numbered license plates are only permitted to drive on even-numbered dates, and vice versa.

Myanmar's civilians expressed frustration with the plan, telling Reuters the measures only added further complications to the high cost of living.