Title: Gokongwei, Gotianun JV Seeks To Expand Philippine Airport Operations Amid Travel Boom
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/iansayson/2025/08/08/gokongwei-gotianun-jv-seeks-to-expand-philippine-airport-operations-amid-travel-boom/
--------------------------------------------------

A joint venture between JG Summit Holdings and Filinvest Development Corp. is seeking to expand their airport operations to tap into the travel boom.

The duo—which runs the Clark International Airport, north of Manila, with Singapore’s Changi Airport Group—submitted a proposal to modernize three provincial airports at some of the country's tourist hot spots. It’s currently under review, Transportation Secretary Vince Dizon said in the Department of Transportation’s website.

The partners are proposing to modernize and expand major regional airports in Bicol, Davao and Siargao, Dizon said, adding upgrading these airports will help boost commerce and tourism in these areas.

Bicol, south of Manila, is home to Mount Mayon, a volcano known for its perfect cone. Siargao and Davao, both on the southern Mindanao Island, are respectively popular destinations for surfing and Mount Apo, the country’s highest peak and habitat to the endangered Philippine Eagle, the world’s biggest eagle by length and wing surface area.

The Philippine government has been tapping private investors to improve the country’s aging airport infrastructure. Aboitiz Equity Ventures runs the Mactan International Airport in the central Philippine island of Cebu, while billionaire Ramon Ang’s San Miguel Corp. is spearheading the 170.6-billion-peso ($3 billion) upgrading and expansion of the country’s main gateway, the Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila.

MORE FOR YOU

JG Summit, which got its start from a corn starch factory founded by the late billionaire John Gokongwei in 1954, now has interests in airlines, food and beverage, banking, petrochemicals and utilities. His son Lance (who runs JG Summit as its president and CEO) and his sisters have a combined net worth of $1.8 billion, placing them at No. 14 on the list of the Philippines’ 50 Richest published this week.

Filinvest Development, which was founded by the late couple Mercedes and Andrew Gotianun Sr. as a small financing company in 1995 has grown into one of the country’s largest conglomerates with interests in banking, sugar, power and real estate. Their heirs have a combined net worth of $800 million.