Title: Changi Airport's passenger traffic in Q1 2024 surpasses pre-pandemic levels
Source: CNA
URL: https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/changi-airport-group-passenger-traffic-pre-pandemic-levels-q1-2024-4292101
--------------------------------------------------

SINGAPORE: About 16.5 million passengers passed through Singapore's Changi Airport in the first quarter of this year, surpassing pre-pandemic levels.

The airport handled 5.43 million, 5.35 million and 5.73 million passenger movements in January, February and March respectively.

These figures were 96 per cent, 104.3 per cent and 101.7 per cent compared with the same months in 2019, Changi Airport Group (CAG) said in a statement on Thursday (Apr 25).

The total number of passenger movements in the first quarter of this year exceeded what was registered in the first quarter of 2019 by 0.5 per cent.

Aircraft movements totalled 89,400, which was 94 per cent of the movements in the first quarter of 2019.

"Traffic to and from most regions recovered to 2019 levels, or surpassed them," CAG said, adding that North America was the strongest performer, with traffic exceeding pre-COVID levels by 25 per cent.

Changi Airport's top five markets for the first quarter were China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Australia and Thailand.

A mutual 30-day visa exemption arrangement between Singapore and China boosted travel between both countries, putting China as Changi's top market for the first quarter.

Denpasar (Bali), Manila, Taipei, Seoul and Shanghai were among the top 10 cities which outperformed their 2019 first quarter numbers by more than 10 per cent.

Airfreight throughput for the quarter totalled 475,000 tonnes, an increase of 14 per cent compared with the same period in 2023. This marked the first quarter of year-on-year growth after seven consecutive quarters of decline.

The growth was largely attributed to strong transshipment performance, especially for flows with China. For this period, Changi’s top five air cargo markets were Australia, China, Hong Kong, India and the US.

CAG executive vice president for air hub and cargo development Lim Ching Kiat said there has been a "steady recovery of travel" in the past year.

"CAG has worked closely with airline partners to reinstate flights suspended during the pandemic and add new flights at Changi Airport," he added.

"The strong traffic performance this quarter was boosted by the hosting of many music concerts in Singapore and the relaxing of visa requirements between China and Singapore.

"Our goal is to achieve 100 per cent traffic recovery this year. We will also introduce new airline brands and destinations to Singapore."

In a speech at the Changi Airline Awards 2024 on Thursday, Transport Minister Chee Hong Tat called the growth in passenger movements "a significant milestone".

"We look forward to the continued growth of passenger traffic at Changi, and my colleagues and I will work towards our goal of exceeding pre-COVID passenger traffic levels for the full year," he said.

Mr Chee also thanked outgoing CAG CEO Lee Seow Hiang, who will step down from his post after 15 years at the helm.

"Seow Hiang’s vision and steadfast leadership has transformed Changi into a leading global air hub, taken the airport through the darkest days of COVID-19, and seen through Changi’s recovery after the pandemic," said the minister.

Mr Yam Kum Weng, the current executive vice president of airport development, will take over from Mr Lee on Jul 1, CAG announced earlier this month.

Mr Lee will also relinquish his roles as a director on the CAG board and as chairman of the boards of Changi Airports International (CAI) and Jewel Changi Airport Development.

Mr Yam will be appointed to the CAG board and as chairman of the CAI board from Jul 1.

TERMINAL 5

Mr Chee also revealed that CAG had launched the first major construction tender for Terminal 5 in March.

The tender was for the building's substructure, which will comprise the foundation and basement works for the new terminal.

Terminal 5 is on track to commence construction in 2025, he said.

Work has also started on other aspects of Terminal 5, such as the underground connection that will link Terminal 2 and Terminal 5.

This connection, known as T2C, will provide baggage and inter-terminal links to ensure a "seamless connection" between Terminal 5 and other terminals.

The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore told CNA on Monday that the distance of the link between Terminal 2 and Terminal 5 is about 2.5km.

"When ready in the mid-2030s, Terminal 5 will be able to handle up to an additional 50 million passengers per annum, strengthening Singapore’s aviation connectivity and our position as an air hub for the region and beyond," said Mr Chee.