Title: United to Reveal New Routes Tomorrow: Will Bangkok Finally Be On the Map Thanks to The White Lotus?
Source: Thebulkheadseat.com
URL: https://thebulkheadseat.com/united-to-reveal-new-routes-tomorrow-will-bangkok-finally-be-on-the-map-thanks-to-the-white-lotus/
--------------------------------------------------

2K

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links below. This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.

United Airlines has the most expansive and interesting route network of any carrier in the United States. It has added tons of exciting flights all over the globe including some far-flung places like Nuuk International Airport (GOH) in Greenland and Chinggis Khaan International Airport (UBN) in Mongolia. Now, it’s teasing that some new routes will be announced tomorrow and it looks like Asia and the South Pacific will be in focus.

While United has not given too many clues, many are speculating that Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) might be one of the new flights. United would be smart to jump on the bandwagon and all of the tourism that The White Lotus is driving to Thailand.

What other routes could be announced? We might see frequencies increase or more of United’s hubs connect to existing destinations like Seoul Incheon International Airport (ICN) or some of the destinations that are currently flown to in China. Ho Chi Minh City’s Tân Sơn Nhất International Airport (SGN), Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KUL), and Fiji’s Nadi International Airport (NAN) have also been rumored as potential adds although right now, it’s anyone’s guess.

Air Canada has been flying to Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport (BKK) from Vancouver International Airport (BKK) for the past few years. A flight from San Francisco International Airport (SFO) would make a lot of sense for United.

Anthony’s Take: We’ll know tomorrow when United officially drops the route lines on its map at 8:00 AM EST. I’m curious to see what’s next as United has been a real innovator in the past.

(Featured Image Credit: United Airlines.)

Advertiser & Editorial Disclosure: The Bulkhead Seat earns an affiliate commission for anyone approved through the links above This compensation may impact how and where links appear on this site. We work to provide the best publicly available offers to our readers. We frequently update them, but this site does not include all available offers. Opinions, reviews, analyses & recommendations are the author’s alone, and have not been reviewed, endorsed, or approved by any of these entities.