Title: Singapore’s First Regenerative Resort Is Open—Here’s How It Was Made
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/kissacastaneda/2025/07/08/singapores-first-regenerative-resort-is-open-heres-how-it-was-made/
--------------------------------------------------

Even without leaving Changi Airport, you’ll immediately understand why Singapore is nicknamed the “Garden City”. Incredibly green and teeming with plants, the airport is an apt introduction to a country where towering trees and gleaming skyscrapers sit side by side.

The gardens, so to speak, are not limited to the outside. There are buildings that look like a modern-day Hanging Gardens of Babylon, thanks to the popularity of biophilic design and architecture in Singapore. The latest example is Mandai Rainforest Resort by Banyan Tree, a visionary project that was conceived not only to be sustainable but regenerative.

Connected to Singapore’s host of national parks such as the Night Safari and Bird Paradise, the eco-resort’s setting is like no other. It’s situated right by the tranquil Upper Seletar Reservoir and embraced by thick foliage that transports guests away from the concrete jungle and into a natural one.

The resort respects its verdant location by not building taller than the treelines, so you feel ensconced in nature. And while the use of natural materials allows it to blend harmoniously with its surroundings, the forward-thinking architecture instantly piques curiosity.

The undeniable stars are the curvaceous treehouses and the wellness pods at the spa—the latter inspired by the scales of the Sunda pangolin, a critically endangered species. The unusual, organic shape of these standout structures veer away from the typical tropical villa vernacular. With a strong aesthetic direction and a firm commitment to the environment, the property is certified as Singapore’s first Super Low Energy (SLE) resort.

How was this prime example of biophilic design made? We speak to Chiu Man Wong, co-founder of WOW Architects, to share the creative journey.

How did WOW Architects get involved with the Mandai project and what were your first impressions of the site?

The Mandai Rainforest Resort by Banyan Tree project started with Mandai Wildlife Group convening a design competition with a very forward-looking brief. We won the competitive tender because we not only satisfied the brief, but also demonstrated that we were able to design a resort that centers around regenerative design.

The design we put forth was able to show that the resort blends in and becomes one with its surrounding environment and enhances the existing site which used to house back-of-house facilities. It’s a beautiful location—surrounded by the Upper Seletar Reservoir and vegetation including many mature trees.

Maria (co-founder of WOW Architects) and I felt that if we were to design and build a resort here, it had to be truly meaningful and worthy of the effort and responsibility involved. Part of the site had infrastructure like staff quarters and a wastewater treatment plant. These facilities were decommissioned and cleared, and we carefully designed the resort within this footprint to minimize disturbance to the surrounding vegetation.

We also strongly felt a commitment to give back more greenery, planting in native trees to complement and enrich the area.

Biophilic design and architecture is thriving in Singapore. How did you push the boundaries at Mandai Rainforest Resort?

This was conceived of as a regenerative design-driven project, which means we aim to give back more than we have received when we took over the site. This is manifested in the green strategy with trees of conservation value retained in tandem with regreening efforts to plant native species, alongside expanding green surface area with the facade and rooftop forest.

In addition to the increased green ratio, Mandai Rainforest Resort by Banyan Tree is also certified to be Singapore’s first Super Low Energy (SLE) resort, in which we have designed the total energy use to be 40% less than equivalent properties.

The design incorporates a host of energy-saving measures including the use of natural ventilation, mixed mode air-conditioning and solar panels. The treehouses also feature passive displacement ventilation—a solution that cools air using passive chilled water technology rather than traditional air conditioning compressor units.

Our aim was not only to use less energy but to transform our guests’ perception of coolness and thermal comfort, as well as educate them to be more discerning in their habits and demands. Rather than cooling entire spaces, we are creating cool zones around the guests so that guests still feel comfortable.

Construction is an inherently carbon intensive exercise. How did you ensure this project was as sustainable as possible?

Although the original design was conceived of using mass timber construction technology (a renewable resource), investigations showed that this method and material was not yet developed and proven robust enough for harsh tropical jungle climates, and to be enduring for a substantial life cycle.

Therefore, we used proven concrete precast technology but adopted it with a twist. Felled trees were recycled and reused into the project. The bark of the trees was upcycled into textured patterned rubber moulds that remind guests of the rainforest.

The wood of the trunks was also recycled into reconstituted wood panels by a Singapore company specialising in this technology, and used in the external cladding of the treehouses.

Certain species of hardwood trees were reused and upcycled into custom furniture specially designed for the resort in collaboration with Singapore craftsmen. We wanted to not only do our part in helping to regenerate the forest, but also celebrate artisanal craft in Singapore by transforming resources.

Designing sustainable structures in a tropical setting has its challenges. Which decisions were made to ensure it had a strong sense of place?

Our concept is sympathetic to the existing vegetation, treelines as well as natural topography. Wherever possible, the resort is elevated several meters above the ground to allow native wildlife to move across the site. It’s also designed to be unobtrusive, sitting below the upper canopy layer of the surrounding trees.

This Liana-like eco-resort tells the story of the rainforest not only by its biomorphic blending and branching form that meanders through the site, but it also describes the four major layers of the rainforest in section, so guests to traverse through the rainforest in multiple dimensions not normally seen to humans.

Tell us, what are your favourite design elements of the project and why?

There are so many aspects of the resort’s design that are special to me and Maria for a variety of reasons. Most importantly, because of the thought that went into it and the effort to execute it. It’s crucial to note that it’s not the design itself that is important to us, as much as the guest experience and memory creation as a result of the design, and its effect on the senses.

There are a few standouts. For instance, the treehouse decks at sunset. After a tiring day walking around the parks, the most relaxing, soothing and healing experience is to sit out on the decks of the treehouse. There are only natural sounds and engaging views of water and jungle.

Between 6pm and 8pm, if you focus on just breathing and gazing, the fading light and deepening shadows transports you into another emotional state. As we chose not to have balustrades but only installed nets for safety, the connection is intimate.

Secondly, the sunrise at dawn inside the east pool pavilion followed by the journey up the decks as the sun rises. The wildlife parks and the immediacy of the surrounding rainforest favors early morning wake-up calls! When you get to the east pool pavilion at 6:45am, there will be the most amazing transformation of light and shadow and the promise of a better new day.

By 7:30am, walk up the spiral stairs two decks between levels 4 and 5, and chase the rising sun as it illuminates the reservoir and the jungle. The jungle symphony can sometimes be deafening! Sometimes, early morning mist wafts through the trees for a mysterious unveiling of the panorama. These experiences are by design, and highly curated to awaken our senses and memory creation, so that we can be deeply aware of nature and all of its elements.

Thirdly, walking through the guest room corridors and linkways between the central block and the west wing. Maria and I were passionate about retaining the small cluster of trees between the main wing and the west wing, and for good reason, as they are amongst the tallest and most mature on site. So we branched the buildings around these trees.

Like a Liana vine, the room corridors and wings are weaved between these trees. As a result, the layered and non-identical overlapping corridors and lookout points celebrate these jungle giants. We want guests at every level to take time to pause, marvel, and learn about these silent sentinels who act like guardians to the regenerating jungle that we replanted around them.

Another highlight is the concrete ‘memory walls’. To reduce the carbon footprint, we decided to reuse every single tree we cut down in the non-concrete components. We harvested the barks of certain specimens as well as a few signature vines that were removed from the site. We made custom rubberised formwork moulds that are used in the casting process of the precast concrete panels. When guests run their hands along the easily accessible concrete walls as they walk along the corridors, they can see, feel, and connect with the trees that existed on the site.

Lastly, the ‘Mandai Chairs’ in Forage. Along with some of the artisanal wood furniture in the lobby and rooms, we wanted to support local woodcraft and emerging talent in Singapore. One focal point where we thought this would be appreciated was Forage, the specialty restaurant at the resort.

We designed the Mandai Chair—our Singaporean take on influences from popular Mid-century modern and American craftsman chair pieces. In collaboration with Roger & Sons, we selected a variety of local species found in the Mandai jungle, and after several attempts, perfected this chair, which we hope brings comfort, visual appreciation and tactile joy to guests!

What is one thing you want guests to experience in the property before they check out?

The one thing that all guests must do is to float inside the rooftop pool in the early morning or late evening, gaze out over the infinity edge, and soak in the sounds of the rainforest. Especially in the early morning, the symphonic melodies of the wild denizens is humbling and touching—you can really feel the presence of nature.

Mandai Rainforest Resort by Banyan Tree is located at 60 Mandai Lake Road, Singapore 729979

MORE FROM FORBES

ForbesWellness Design Is Booming—Rakxa In Bangkok Shows How To Bring It HomeForbesIs Quiet Luxury Over? Top Designer André Fu Believes It’s Here To StayForbesOsaka Expo 2025: The Making Of The Philippine Pavilion By Carlo CalmaForbesThe Hotels In ‘The White Lotus’ Season 3, Aside From The Four Seasons