Title: South Korea Retaliates To North Korea’s Trash-Filled Balloons By Blaring Speakers—Here’s Why
Source: Forbes
URL: https://www.forbes.com/sites/aliciapark/2024/07/19/south-korea-retaliates-to-north-koreas-trash-filled-balloons-by-blaring-speakers-heres-why/
--------------------------------------------------

Topline

South Korea on Friday once again broadcast propaganda through speakers over its border—including playing K-pop and news on Samsung— in response to North Korea flying trash-filled balloons across the border for the eighth time since May, as tensions simmer between the neighboring countries.

Key Facts

Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here.

Key Background

The recent psychological warfare tactics come after North Korea’s defense deal with Russia on June 19—which analysts say could represent the strongest ties between the two countries since the Cold War—as well as increased nuclear missile testing from North Korea and expanded U.S.-South Korea military drills this year. The rising tensions between the two countries have worsened since the short-lived peace period in 2018, shortly after which North Korea resumed artillery exercises near a South Korean island. In the past two years alone, AP News reported North Korea conducted over 100 missile tests, escalating tensions between the two nations. Earlier this year, North Korea tested suspected supersonic missiles in April and June while South Korea took part in joint drills with the U.S, including live-firing and missile interception exercises. A final peace settlement has never been achieved between the two nations since the 1953 Korean Armistice Agreement which ended the Korean War’s organized combat operations and established the 38th parallel line which separates the two countries.

Surprising Fact

Though seemingly unharmful, the first four rounds of balloon campaigns have inflicted around $20,000 in property damage, including crushed roofs and ceilings of residential buildings, shattered car front windshields and ripped plastic film from a greenhouse farm, according to JoongAng Daily. One balloon came with an attached timed explosive which set a vehicle on fire, the outlet reported. While no legal grounds exist on covering such damage by the government, the South Korean Ministry of Interior and Safety said the damages would be covered using state fund reserves. The balloons also halted all operations for three hours at Incheon International Airport in June, citing safety risks.